PMID- 25462139
TI  - Blink reflex studies in postparalytic facial syndrome and blepharospasm: trigeminal and extratrigeminal somatosensory stimulation.
AB  - PURPOSE: The somatosensory-evoked blink reflex (SBR) is one of the release phenomena of blink reflex, possibly resulting from increased excitability of brainstem reticular formation. METHODS: The authors investigated trigeminal blink responses and SBR in 26 patients with postparalytic facial syndrome (PFS) with synkinesia, 18 patients with essential blepharospasm, and 36 healthy volunteers (control participants). RESULTS: Trigeminal blink reflex responses were elicited in all participants, whereas SBRs were elicited in 44.4% of control participants, 38.9% of patients with essential blepharospasm, and 65.4% of patients with PFS. The mean R2 amplitude and duration and the mean amplitude and duration of SBR were highest in patients with essential blepharospasm. The mean latency of SBR was shorter on the symptomatic side of patients with PFS when compared with the asymptomatic side. The mean R2 duration on the symptomatic side of the patients with PFS was longer than the control participants. CONCLUSIONS: These results showed that somatosensory stimulation could be used as an alternative method to demonstrate increased excitability in facial motor neuron in patients with PFS and essential blepharospasm. Disease states relating to different peripheral and/or suprasegmental structures could also influence blink reflex and change its basal excitability and manner in which the reflex responds to modulatory factors. 


PMID- 25462140
TI  - Neuroimaging effects of 1 Hz right temporoparietal rTMS on normal auditory processing: implications for clinical hallucination treatment paradigms.
AB  - PURPOSE: Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) has attracted attention as a putative clinical neuromodulatory tool, including for ameliorating hallucinations, although existing clinical data are inconsistent. There is a notable paucity of research on its physiological effects on normal neuronal functioning. METHODS: We neuroimaged 24 healthy adult volunteers undertaking a variable loading passive auditory task, randomized into 2 matched and double-masked groups: half received a 17-minute 1 Hz right temporoparietal rTMS paradigm and half sham rTMS. RESULTS: One hertz rTMS led to attenuation of the underlying auditory cortex response to the stimulus and a contralateral increase in cortical activity. Subanalysis of the auditory tasks demonstrated that rTMS effects varied with stimulus frequency and differences between the active and sham conditions were lost at the highest frequency. CONCLUSIONS: This work is, to the best of our knowledge, the first to neuroimage the effects of a "hallucinatory rTMS protocol" on basic auditory processing in healthy controls. Our data demonstrated that a so-called "inhibitory paradigm" can also produce distal neuronal activation and that effects can vary with neural loading. These results highlight the insufficient knowledge of the effects of rTMS on normal physiology, and this, combined with a lack of consensus on clinical trial parameters, may be contributing to the ambivalent data in therapeutic trials. 


PMID- 25462141
TI  - Effect of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation on reducing spasticity in patients suffering from HTLV-1-associated myelopathy.
AB  - PURPOSE: Human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 has been implicated in human T-lymphotropic virus type 1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP). Regarding its endemicity in Iran and the role of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation in reducing spasticity, we decided to evaluate the efficacy of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation in reducing spasticity (as primary outcome) and pain, muscle power, and quality of life (as secondary outcomes) in patients suffering from HAM/TSP. METHODS: In this pretest-posttest study, nine definite patients with HAM/TSP (according to WHO guidelines) were recruited. All patients underwent five consecutive daily sessions of active repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (each session consisting of 20 trains of 10 pulses at 5 Hz and an intensity of 90% of resting motor threshold for the biceps brachii muscle). Main outcome measures including spasticity (by modified Ashworth scale), pain (by visual analog scale), muscle power, and quality of life (by SF 36) were measured before the study and days 5, 7, 30 after the termination of the sessions. RESULTS: Seven (77.8%) females and 2 (22.2%) males were recruited with the mean age of 52 +/- 12.67 years, and the mean duration of the disease was 5 +/- 3.94. Comparison of the repeated measures showed a statistically significant decrease in pain and spasticity in lower limbs. The decrement in spasticity was persistent even 30 days after the intervention; however, the pain reduction was seen only 5 days after the procedure. No change in quality of life, and muscle power was detected. CONCLUSIONS: It seems that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation could decrease spasticity and pain in patients with HAM/TSP, and this effect could persistently continue by 1 month, but it did not influence patients' muscle power and quality of life, and it could be used as an adjuvant therapy in patients suffering from human T-lymphotropic virus type 1-associated HAM/TSP. 


PMID- 25462142
TI  - Blink reflex in type 2 diabetes mellitus.
AB  - PURPOSE: An evaluation of the extent of damage of the central nervous system in diabetes mellitus is of high value in current research. Electrophysiological abnormalities are frequently present in asymptomatic patients with diabetes mellitus. Diabetic cranial neuropathy is one of the complications of the disease. Blink reflex is used to diagnose subclinical cranial neuropathy. The objective is to test the utility of blink reflex in detecting subclinical cranial nerve involvement in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. METHODS: Forty patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, aged from 30 to 60 years examined clinically and neurologically. Blink reflex and nerve conduction studies for the upper and lower limbs were performed and compared with 20 matched normal controls. RESULTS: Diabetic patients with peripheral neuropathy showed significant prolonged distal latency and reduced amplitudes of the R2C response compared with the control, patients without peripheral neuropathy showed insignificant changes. Alteration of R2 correlated with the type of treatment and the duration of the disease. In patients without peripheral neuropathy, ulnar sensory distal latencies showed significant positive correlation with R2I latency, whereas its Conduction Velocity (CV) showed significant positive correlation with R2C amplitudes and negative correlation with R2C latency. CONCLUSIONS: R2C is the most sensitive parameter in the blink reflex, which can help in the diagnosis of subclinical diabetic cranial neuropathy. 


PMID- 25462143
TI  - Intraoperative monitoring for intracranial aneurysms: the Michigan experience.
AB  - Intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring is routinely used during the repair (endovascular or microsurgical) of intracranial aneurysms at major centers. There is a continued need of data sets from institutions with dedicated intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring services to further define the predictive factors of postoperative neurological deficits. We retrospectively reviewed and analyzed our database of all patients who underwent repair of intracranial aneurysms (endovascular or microsurgical). A total of 406 patients underwent 470 procedures. The changes were noted during monitoring in 3.83% of the cases. Most of the changes were first detected in somatosensory evoked potential (88.89%) followed by brainstem auditory evoked potential (16.67%). Changes were completely reversible in 44.44%, only partly reversible in 22.22%, and irreversible in 33.33% of cases. Intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring changes demonstrated high sensitivity, specificity, and negative predictive value for postoperative neurological deficits. The association between intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring changes and Glasgow outcome scale was significant for reversible changes compared against irreversible and partly reversible changes. Presence of any intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring modality change during repair of intracranial aneurysm may suggest a higher risk for postoperative neurological deficits. Reversibility of the changes is a favorable marker, whereas irreversible changes are predictive of postoperative neurological deficits with deterioration of Glasgow outcome scale on a longer follow-up. 


PMID- 25462144
TI  - Recovery of TES-MEPs during surgical decompression of the spine: a case series of eight patients.
AB  - PURPOSE: This study aimed to illustrate the recovery of transcranial electrical stimulation motor evoked potentials during surgical decompression of the spinal cord in patients with impaired motor function preoperatively. Specific attention was paid to the duration of neurologic symptoms before surgery and the postoperative clinical recovery. METHODS: A case series of eight patients was selected from a cohort of 74 patients that underwent spine surgery. The selected patients initially had low or absent transcranial electrical stimulation motor evoked potentials followed by a significant increase after surgical decompression of the spinal cord. RESULTS: A significant intraoperative increase in amplitude of motor evoked potentials was detected after decompression of the spinal cord or cauda equina in patients suffering from spinal canal stenosis (n = 2), extradural meningioma (n = 3), or a herniated nucleus polposus (n = 3). This was related to an enhanced neurologic outcome only if patients (n = 6) had a short onset (less than 1/2 year) of neurologic impairment before surgery. CONCLUSIONS: In patients with a short onset of neurologic impairment because of compression of the spinal cord or caudal fibers, an intraoperative recovery of transcranial electrical stimulation motor evoked potentials can indicate an improvement of motor function postoperatively. Therefore, transcranial electrical stimulation motor evoked potentials can be considered as a useful tool to the surgeon to monitor the quality of decompression of the spinal cord. 


PMID- 25462145
TI  - Train-of-four test in intraoperative neurophysiologic monitoring: differences between hand and foot train-of-four.
AB  - PURPOSE: Comparison of T1-T4 decrement between upper and lower extremity muscles can indicate differences between recovery time from neuromuscular blockade, which may have repercussions for neurophysiologic intraoperative monitoring. We investigated decrement between T1 and T4 hand and foot muscle responses on quantitative train-of-four (TOF) test. METHODS: Study analyzed differences between recovery of foot, abductor hallucis muscle, and hand, first dorsal interosseous muscle, by application of quantitative TOF test on 147 patients undergoing lumbar spine surgery. T1 to T4 decrements on hand and foot TOF were obtained and classified into different groups, depending on elapsed time after administration of neuromuscular blocking agents and its dose. RESULTS: There are significant differences between T1-T4 decrements obtained on hand and foot (P < 0.05). T1-T4 decrement determined on abductor hallucis muscle was lower indicating more rapid recovery than the first dorsal interosseous muscle (P < 0.05). Interestingly, quite opposite, more pronounced decrement in foot TOF than hand was showed in 4% (5 out of all 147 cases). CONCLUSIONS: The observed difference between recovery of hand and foot muscles suggests that quantitative TOF test should be performed on extremities for which accurate data about the level of neuromuscular blockade is sought. During lumbar spine surgery monitoring, in addition to hand TOF, foot TOF should be included. 


PMID- 25462146
TI  - Stimulus-induced generalized epileptiform discharges: an unrecognized EEG pattern in refractory nonconvulsive status epilepticus.
AB  - PURPOSE: To report an unrecognized EEG pattern occurring in patients with coma with nonconvulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) treated with thiopental and characterized by a high amplitude generalized sharp wave that was induced by isolated or repetitive low frequency photic or tactile stimulation (stimulus-induced generalized epileptiform discharges). METHODS: Review of clinical and EEG records of 4 patients with stimulus-induced generalized epileptiform discharges identified among patients admitted to an intensive care unit (ICU) of our institution who underwent EEG monitoring between July 2011 and January 2013. RESULTS: Four patients had refractory NCSE secondary to hepatic encephalopathy, brain tumor, immunomediated encephalopathy, or anti-NMDA encephalitis. All of them were treated with several antiepileptic drugs and anesthetics, but stimulus-induced generalized epileptiform discharges were only recorded after control of NCSE with thiopental. The discharges occurred without associated clinical manifestations. Two patients died in the ICU, and two had a favorable outcome. Stimulus-induced generalized epileptiform discharges were not recorded in 240 critically ill patients admitted to the ICU who had an EEG recorded during this period. Twenty-two of them were in NCSE, and only one was treated with thiopental. CONCLUSIONS: Stimulus-induced generalized epileptiform discharges is an EEG pattern occurring in patients with NCSE treated with thiopental. The clinical relevance and pathophysiology of stimulus-induced generalized epileptiform discharges remain to be clarified. 


PMID- 25462147
TI  - Electroencephalographic changes in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and correlation with clinical stages: a retrospective analysis.
AB  - PURPOSE: To analyze clinical features and EEG changes in patients with sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and study the association between different EEG patterns and clinical stages. METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed the clinical features and EEG patterns of 3 patients with clinical stage II and 10 patients with stage III sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (EEG n = 17). Chi-square test was used to study the association between EEG features and disease stages. RESULTS: Diffuse slowing of the background was the dominant EEG pattern in stage II disease. All stage III patients showed additional abnormalities, such as frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity, periodic discharges, and nonperiodic triphasic waves. Periodic discharges had significant association with stage III disease, present in 64% of EEGs in this group. Sixty-seven percentage of periodic discharges had a peculiar pattern labeled by us as posterior-anterior-posterior lag. CONCLUSIONS: The EEG of stage II sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is characterized by background slowing while the presence of periodic discharge has a significant association with stage III of the disease. The posterior-anterior-posterior lag of periodic discharge is a new observation. 


PMID- 25462148
TI  - Idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus, quantitative EEG findings, and the cerebrospinal fluid tap test: a pilot study.
AB  - PURPOSE: In this pilot study, we analyzed relationships between quantitative EEG measurements and clinical parameters in idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus patients, along with differences in these quantitative EEG markers between cerebrospinal fluid tap test responders and nonresponders. METHODS: Twenty-six idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus patients (9 cerebrospinal fluid tap test responders and 17 cerebrospinal fluid tap test nonresponders) constituted the final group for analysis. The resting EEG was recorded and relative powers were computed for seven frequency bands. RESULTS: Cerebrospinal fluid tap test nonresponders, when compared with responders, showed a statistically significant increase in alpha2 band power at the right frontal and centrotemporal regions. Higher delta2 band powers in the frontal, central, parietal, and occipital regions and lower alpha1 band powers in the right temporal region significantly correlated with poorer cognitive performance. Higher theta1 band powers in the left parietal and occipital regions significantly correlated with gait dysfunction. And higher delta1 band powers in the right frontal regions significantly correlated with urinary disturbance. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings may encourage further research using quantitative EEG in patients with ventriculomegaly as a potential electrophysiological marker for predicting cerebrospinal fluid tap test responders. This study additionally suggests that the delta, theta, and alpha bands are statistically correlated with the severity of symptoms in idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus patients. 


PMID- 25462149
TI  - Infraslow EEG changes in infantile spasms.
AB  - PURPOSE: Infantile spasms (IS) are a devastating epileptic encephalopathy syndrome of infancy. Analysis of infraslow EEG activity (ISA) has shown potential in the presurgical evaluation of patients with epilepsy and in differentiating between focal and generalized epilepsy syndromes. Infraslow EEG activity analysis may provide insights into the pathophysiology of some difficult-to-treat epilepsy syndromes, such as IS. To our knowledge, there are no published reports describing ISA in patients with IS. The purpose of this study was to describe ictal patterns of ISA in patients with IS and to correlate with clinical data. METHODS: EEG recordings of all cases of IS in the past 10 years at the Alberta Children's Hospital were reviewed. Inclusion criteria were a technically adequate video EEG recording that captured at least one spasm. For each patient, the first 10 confirmed spasms were examined. Spasms were evaluated for changes in ISA, which were either generalized, lateralized, or absent ISA (g-ISA, l-ISA, or n-ISA, respectively). Results were correlated with treatments, clinical course, and information pertinent to likely etiology of the IS. RESULTS: A total of 77% of spasms were associated with ISA; 57% with g-ISA, 20% l-ISA, and 21% n-ISA. All patients with exclusively g-ISA showed at least a partial response to initial therapy, while this was the case in 66.7% of those with at least some l-ISA and 50% of those with exclusively n-ISA. Other seizure types occurred in 60% of patients with exclusively g-ISA versus 83% with some l-ISA and all patients with exclusively n-ISA. CONCLUSIONS: Ictal ISA was observed in the majority of IS. Trends were observed suggesting that the presence of exclusive g-ISA changes may be a positive prognostic factor in IS. 


PMID- 25462150
TI  - Neuromuscular ultrasound findings in polyneuropathy secondary to disulfiram.
AB  - Disulfiram toxicity can cause multiple neurologic problems, including a reversible distal sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy. Although electrodiagnosis and biopsy results have been described in the diagnosis and management of patients with disulfiram associated polyneuropathy, neuromuscular ultrasound findings have not been reported. The authors present a case of electrodiagnostically confirmed axonal polyneuropathy with relative sural sparing secondary to disulfiram and describe the neuromuscular ultrasound findings in this individual. Ultrasound demonstrated distal enlargement with slight side-to-side asymmetry and normal proximal cross-sectional area in the lower extremity nerves. Neuromuscular ultrasound is another diagnostic modality that may be used to assist in the diagnosis of patients with polyneuropathy secondary to disulfiram. 


PMID- 25462151
TI  - Big biological data: challenges and opportunities.
AB  - 


PMID- 25462152
TI  - Application of next-generation sequencing technology in forensic science.
AB  - Next-generation sequencing (NGS) technology, with its high-throughput capacity and low cost, has developed rapidly in recent years and become an important analytical tool for many genomics researchers. New opportunities in the research domain of the forensic studies emerge by harnessing the power of NGS technology, which can be applied to simultaneously analyzing multiple loci of forensic interest in different genetic contexts, such as autosomes, mitochondrial and sex chromosomes. Furthermore, NGS technology can also have potential applications in many other aspects of research. These include DNA database construction, ancestry and phenotypic inference, monozygotic twin studies, body fluid and species identification, and forensic animal, plant and microbiological analyses. Here we review the application of NGS technology in the field of forensic science with the aim of providing a reference for future forensics studies and practice.  


PMID- 25462153
TI  - Pathway-based analysis tools for complex diseases: a review.
AB  - Genetic studies are traditionally based on single-gene analysis. The use of these analyses can pose tremendous challenges for elucidating complicated genetic interplays involved in complex human diseases. Modern pathway-based analysis provides a technique, which allows a comprehensive understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying complex diseases. Extensive studies utilizing the methods and applications for pathway-based analysis have significantly advanced our capacity to explore large-scale omics data, which has rapidly accumulated in biomedical fields. This article is a comprehensive review of the pathway-based analysis methods-the powerful methods with the potential to uncover the biological depths of the complex diseases. The general concepts and procedures for the pathway-based analysis methods are introduced and then, a comprehensive review of the major approaches for this analysis is presented. In addition, a list of available pathway-based analysis software and databases is provided. Finally, future directions and challenges for the methodological development and applications of pathway-based analysis techniques are discussed. This review will provide a useful guide to dissect complex diseases.  


PMID- 25462154
TI  - Identification of a novel SBF2 frameshift mutation in charcot-marie-tooth disease type 4B2 using whole-exome sequencing.
AB  - Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4B2 with early-onset glaucoma (CMT4B2, OMIM 604563) is a genetically-heterogeneous childhood-onset neuromuscular disorder. Here, we report the case of a 15-year-old male adolescent with lower extremity weakness, gait abnormalities, foot deformities and early-onset glaucoma. Since clinical diagnosis alone was insufficient for providing pathogenetic evidence to indicate that the condition belonged to a consanguineous family, we applied whole-exome sequencing to samples from the patient, his parents and his younger brother, assuming that the patient's condition is transmitted in an autosomal recessive pattern. A frame-shift mutation, c.4571delG (P.Gly1524Glufs*42), was revealed in the CMT4B2-related gene SBF2 (also known as MTMR13, MIM 607697), and this mutation was found to be homozygous in the proband and heterozygous in his parents and younger brother. Together with the results of clinical diagnosis, this case was diagnosed as CMT4B2. Our finding further demonstrates the use of whole-exome sequencing in the diagnosis and treatment of rare diseases.  


PMID- 25462155
TI  - Computational prediction of microRNAs from Toxoplasma gondii potentially regulating the hosts' gene expression.
AB  - MicroRNAs (miRNAs) were discovered two decades ago, yet there is still a great need for further studies elucidating their genesis and targeting in different phyla. Since experimental discovery and validation of miRNAs is difficult, computational predictions are indispensable and today most computational approaches employ machine learning. Toxoplasma gondii, a parasite residing within the cells of its hosts like human, uses miRNAs for its post-transcriptional gene regulation. It may also regulate its hosts' gene expression, which has been shown in brain cancer. Since previous studies have shown that overexpressed miRNAs within the host are causal for disease onset, we hypothesized that T. gondii could export miRNAs into its host cell. We computationally predicted all hairpins from the genome of T. gondii and used mouse and human models to filter possible candidates. These were then further compared to known miRNAs in human and rodents and their expression was examined for T. gondii grown in mouse and human hosts, respectively. We found that among the millions of potential hairpins in T. gondii, only a few thousand pass filtering using a human or mouse model and that even fewer of those are expressed. Since they are expressed and differentially expressed in rodents and human, we suggest that there is a chance that T. gondii may export miRNAs into its hosts for direct regulation.  


PMID- 25462156
TI  - Role of intracellular prostaglandin E2 in cancer-related phenotypes in PC3 cells.
AB  - Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) affect many mechanisms that have been shown to play a role in prostate cancer. In PGE2-treated LNCaP cells, up-regulation of HIF-1alpha requires the internalization of PGE2, which is in sharp contrast with the generally accepted view that PGE2 acts through EP receptors located at the cell membrane. Here we aimed to study in androgen-independent PC3 cells the role of intracellular PGE2 in several events linked to prostate cancer progression. To this end, we used bromocresol green, an inhibitor of prostaglandin uptake that blocked the immediate rise in intracellular immunoreactive PGE2 following treatment with 16,16-dimethyl-PGE2. Bromocresol green prevented the stimulatory effect of 16,16-dimethyl-PGE on cell proliferation, adhesion, migration and invasion and on HIF-1alpha expression and activity, the latter assessed as the HIF-dependent activation of (i) a hypoxia response element-luciferase plasmid construct, (ii) production of angiogenic factor vascular endothelial growth factor-A and (iii) in vitro angiogenesis. The basal phenotype of PC3 cells was also affected by bromocresol green, that substantially lowered expression of HIF-1alpha, production of vascular endothelial growth factor-A and cell proliferation. These results, and the fact that we found functional intracellular EP receptors in PC3 cells, suggest that PGE2-dependent intracrine mechanisms play a role in prostate cancer Therefore, inhibition of the prostaglandin uptake transporter might be a novel therapeutic approach for the treatment of prostate cancer.  


PMID- 25462158
TI  - Abnormal cortical lysosomal beta-hexosaminidase and beta-galactosidase activity at post-synaptic sites during Alzheimer's disease progression.
AB  - A critical role of endosomal-lysosomal system alteration in neurodegeneration is supported by several studies. Dysfunction of the lysosomal compartment is a common feature also in Alzheimer's disease. Altered expression of lysosomal glycohydrolases has been demonstrated not only in the brain and peripheral tissues of Alzheimer's disease patients, but also in presymptomatic subjects before degenerative phenomenon becomes evident. Moreover, the presence of glycohydrolases associated to the plasma membrane have been widely demonstrated and their alteration in pathological conditions has been documented. In particular, lipid microdomains-associated glycohydrolases can be functional to the maintenance of the proper glycosphingolipids pattern, especially at cell surface level, where they are crucial for the function of cell types such as neurons. In this study we investigated the localization of beta-hexosaminidase and beta-galactosidase glycohydrolases, both involved in step by step degradation of the GM1 to GM3 gangliosides, in lipid microdomains from the cortex of both an early and advanced TgCRND8 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Throughout immunoprecipitation experiments of purified cortical lipid microdomains, we demonstrated for the first time that beta-hexosaminidase and beta-galactosidase are associated with post-synaptic vesicles and that their activities are increased at both the early and the advanced stage of Alzheimer's disease. The early increase of lipid microdomain-associated beta-hexosaminidase and beta-galactosidase activities could have relevant implications for the pathophysiology of the disease since their possible pharmacological manipulation could shed light on new reliable targets and biological markers of Alzheimer's disease.  


PMID- 25462157
TI  - Characterising the association of latency with alpha(1)-antitrypsin polymerisation using a novel monoclonal antibody.
AB  - alpha1-Antitrypsin is primarily synthesised in the liver, circulates to the lung and protects pulmonary tissues from proteolytic damage. The Z mutant (Glu342Lys) undergoes inactivating conformational change and polymerises. Polymers are retained within the hepatocyte endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in homozygous (PiZZ) individuals, predisposing the individuals to hepatic cirrhosis and emphysema. Latency is an analogous process of inactivating, intra-molecular conformational change and may co-occur with polymerisation. However, the relationship between latency and polymerisation remained unexplored in the absence of a suitable probe. We have developed a novel monoclonal antibody specific for latent alpha1-antitrypsin and used it in combination with a polymer-specific antibody, to assess the association of both conformers in vitro, in disease and during augmentation therapy. In vitro kinetics analysis showed polymerisation dominated the pathway but latency could be promoted by stabilising monomeric alpha1-antitrypsin. Polymers were extensively produced in hepatocytes and a cell line expressing Z alpha1-antitrypsin but the latent protein was not detected despite manipulation of the secretory pathway. However, alpha1-antitrypsin augmentation therapy contains latent alpha1-antitrypsin, as did the plasma of 63/274 PiZZ individuals treated with augmentation therapy but 0/264 who were not receiving this medication (p<10(-14)). We conclude that latent alpha1-antitrypsin is a by-product of the polymerisation pathway, that the intracellular folding environment is resistant to formation of the latent conformer but that augmentation therapy introduces latent alpha1-antitrypsin into the circulation. A suite of monoclonal antibodies and methodologies developed in this study can characterise alpha1-antitrypsin folding and conformational transitions, and screen methods to improve augmentation therapy.  


PMID- 25462159
TI  - Oncogenic Human Papillomavirus 16E7 modulates SUMOylation of FoxM1b.
AB  - The oncogenic transcription factor Forkhead box M1b (FoxM1b), a key regulator of cell cycle, is often overexpressed in many human cancers. Interestingly, posttranslational modifications are known to play important role in regulating the levels and activity of FoxM1b. The purpose of the present study was to characterize the SUMOylation of FoxM1b and identify the functional consequences including viral pathogenesis. Here, we report that FoxM1b interacts with SUMOylating enzymes Ubc9 and PIAS1 and acts as a substrate for SUMOylation. We also show that SUMOylation facilitates FoxM1b protein destabilization and nucleocytoplasmic shuttling. More importantly, we provide the first evidence for a role of E7 oncoprotein in high risk human papillomavirus (HPV) mediated upregulation of FoxM1b. The elevated expression of FoxM1 was determined to be posttranscriptional and was attributed to decreased SUMOylation of FoxM1b in the E7-expressing cells. Moreover, we demonstrate the involvement of SUMOylation in regulation of FoxM1 and present biochemical evidence that HPV16 E7 oncoprotein can modulate SUMOylation of FoxM1b by impairing its interaction with Ubc9. Together, these results provide a novel connection between SUMOylation of FoxM1b and HPV carcinogenesis. The findings may have important implications in the discovery of future anti-cancer therapeutics.  


PMID- 25462160
TI  - Crosstalk of mesenchymal stem cells and macrophages promotes cardiac muscle repair.
AB  - Transplantation of bone-marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) has potential therapeutic effects on cardiac muscle repair. However, the underlying mechanism remains not completely clarified. Here we show that transplantation of MSCs significantly increased local recruitment of macrophages to facilitate cardiac muscle repair. MSCs-induced recovery of cardiac function and attenuation of fibrosis after injury were all abolished by either impaired macrophage infiltration, or by MSCs depletion after macrophage recruitment. However, angiogenesis seemed to be only affected by depletion of macrophages, but not by depletion of MSCs, suggesting that macrophages are responsible for the augmented angiogenesis after MSCs transplantation, while MSCs do not directly contribute to angiogenesis in the functional cardiac repair. Moreover, high level of transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGFbeta1) was detected in macrophages and high level of BMP7 was detected in MSCs, suggesting that MSCs not only may recruit macrophages to enhance angiogenesis to promote regeneration, but also may secrete BMP7 to contradict the fibrogenic effect of TGFbeta1 by macrophages. Our study thus sheds new insight on the interaction of MSCs and macrophages in a functional cardiac repair triggered by MSCs transplantation.  


PMID- 25462161
TI  - The role of lipotoxicity in smoke cardiomyopathy.
AB  - BACKGROUND/AIMS: Experimental and clinical studies have shown the direct toxic effects of cigarette smoke (CS) on the myocardium, independent of vascular effects. However, the underlying mechanisms are not well known. METHODS: Wistar rats were allocated to control (C) and cigarette smoke (CS) groups. CS rats were exposed to cigarette smoke for 2 months. RESULTS: After that morphometric, functional and biochemical parameters were measured. The echocardiographic study showed enlargement of the left atria, increase in the left ventricular systolic volume and reduced systolic function. Within the cardiac metabolism, exposure to CS decreased beta hydroxy acyl coenzyme A dehydrogenases and citrate synthases and increased lactate dehydrogenases. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1 alpha (PGC-1alpha) were expressed similarly in both groups. CS increased serum lipids and myocardial triacylglycerols (TGs). These data suggest that impairment in fatty acid oxidation and the accumulation of cardiac lipids characterize lipotoxicity. CS group exhibited increased oxidative stress and decreased antioxidant defense. Finally, the myocyte cross-sectional area and active Caspase 3 were increased in the CS group. CONCLUSION: The cardiac remodeling that was observed in the CS exposure model may be explained by abnormalities in energy metabolism, including lipotoxicity and oxidative stress. 


PMID- 25462162
TI  - Antibiotic exposure in a low-income country: screening urine samples for presence of antibiotics and antibiotic resistance in coagulase negative staphylococcal contaminants.
AB  - Development of antimicrobial resistance has been assigned to excess and misuse of antimicrobial agents. Staphylococci are part of the normal flora but are also potential pathogens that have become essentially resistant to many known antibiotics. Resistances in coagulase negative staphylococci (CoNS) are suggested to evolve due to positive selective pressure following antibiotic treatment. This study investigated the presence of the nine most commonly used antimicrobial agents in human urine from outpatients in two hospitals in Ghana in relation to CoNS resistance. Urine and CoNS were sampled (n = 246 and n = 96 respectively) from patients in two hospitals in Ghana. CoNS were identified using Gram staining, coagulase test, and MALDI-TOF/MS, and the antimicrobial susceptibility to 12 commonly used antimicrobials was determined by disk diffusion. Moreover an analytical method was developed for the determination of the nine most commonly used antimicrobial agents in Ghana by using solid-phase extraction in combination with HPLC-MS/MS using electron spray ionization. The highest frequency of resistance to CoNS was observed for penicillin V (98%), trimethoprim (67%), and tetracycline (63%). S. haemolyticus was the most common isolate (75%), followed by S. epidermidis (13%) and S. hominis (6%). S. haemolyticus was also the species displaying the highest resistance prevalence (82%). 69% of the isolated CoNS were multiple drug resistant (? 4 antibiotics) and 45% of the CoNS were methicillin resistant. Antimicrobial agents were detected in 64% of the analysed urine samples (n = 121) where the most frequently detected antimicrobials were ciprofloxacin (30%), trimethoprim (27%), and metronidazole (17%). The major findings of this study was that the prevalence of detected antimicrobials in urine was more frequent than the use reported by the patients and the prevalence of resistant S. haemolyticus was more frequent than other resistant CoNS species when antimicrobial agents were detected in the urine. 


PMID- 25462165
TI  - Modelling the spatial behaviour of a tropical tuna purse seine fleet.
AB  - Industrial tuna fisheries operate in the Indian, Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, but concerns over sustainability and environmental impacts of these fisheries have resulted in increased scrutiny of how they are managed. An important but often overlooked factor in the success or failure of tuna fisheries management is the behaviour of fishers and fishing fleets. Uncertainty in how a fishing fleet will respond to management or other influences can be reduced by anticipating fleet behaviour, although to date there has been little research directed at understanding and anticipating the human dimension of tuna fisheries. The aim of this study was to address gaps in knowledge of the behaviour of tuna fleets, using the Indian Ocean tropical tuna purse seine fishery as a case study. We use statistical modelling to examine the factors that influence the spatial behaviour of the purse seine fleet at broad spatiotemporal scales. This analysis reveals very high consistency between years in the use of seasonal fishing grounds by the fleet, as well as a forcing influence of biophysical ocean conditions on the distribution of fishing effort. These findings suggest strong inertia in the spatial behaviour of the fleet, which has important implications for predicting the response of the fleet to natural events or management measures (e.g., spatial closures).  


PMID- 25462164
TI  - Vasoprotective effects of urocortin 1 against atherosclerosis in vitro and in vivo.
AB  - AIM: Atherosclerosis is the complex lesion that consists of endothelial inflammation, macrophage foam cell formation, vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) migration and proliferation, and extracellular matrix production. Human urocortin 1 (Ucn1), a 40-amino acid peptide member of the corticotrophin-releasing factor/urotensin I family, has potent cardiovascular protective effects. This peptide induces potent and long-lasting hypotension and coronary vasodilation. However, the relationship of Ucn1 with atherosclerosis remains unclear. The present study was performed to clarify the effects of Ucn1 on atherosclerosis. METHODS: We assessed the effects of Ucn1 on the inflammatory response and proliferation of human endothelial cells (ECs), human macrophage foam cell formation, migration and proliferation of human VSMCs, extracellular matrix expression in VSMCs, and the development of atherosclerosis in apolipoprotein E-deficient (Apoe-/-) mice. RESULTS: Ucn1 significantly suppressed cell proliferation without inducing apoptosis, and lipopolysaccharide-induced up-regulation of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 in human ECs. Ucn1 significantly reduced oxidized low-density lipoprotein-induced foam cell formation with a significant down-regulation of CD36 and acyl-CoA:cholesterol acyltransferase 1 in human monocyte-derived macrophages. Ucn1 significantly suppressed the migration and proliferation of human VSMCs and increased the activities of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP2) and MMP9 in human VSMCs. Intraperitoneal injection of Ucn1 into Apoe-/- mice for 4 weeks significantly retarded the development of aortic atherosclerotic lesions. CONCLUSIONS: This study provided the first evidence that Ucn1 prevents the development of atherosclerosis by suppressing EC inflammatory response and proliferation, macrophage foam cell formation, and VSMC migration and proliferation. Thus, Ucn1 could serve as a novel therapeutic target for atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases. 


PMID- 25462166
TI  - Molecular mechanism of regulation of villus cell Na-K-ATPase in the chronically inflamed mammalian small intestine.
AB  - Na-K-ATPase located on the basolateral membrane (BLM) of intestinal epithelial cells provides a favorable intracellular Na+ gradient to promote all Na dependent co-transport processes across the brush border membrane (BBM). Down-regulation of Na-K-ATPase activity has been postulated to alter the absorption via Na-solute co-transporters in human inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Further, the altered activity of a variety of Na-solute co-transporters in intact villus cells has been reported in animal models of chronic enteritis. But the molecular mechanism of down-regulation of Na-K-ATPase is not known. In the present study, using a rabbit model of chronic intestinal inflammation, which resembles human IBD, Na-K-ATPase in villus cells was shown to decrease. The relative mRNA abundance of alpha-1 and beta-1 subunits was not altered in villus cells during chronic intestinal inflammation. Similarly, the protein levels of these subunits were also not altered in villus cells during chronic enteritis. However, the BLM concentration of alpha-1 and beta-1 subunits was diminished in the chronically inflamed intestinal villus cells. An ankyrin-spectrin skeleton is necessary for the proper trafficking of Na-K-ATPase to the BLM of the cell. In the present study, ankyrin expression was markedly diminished in villus cells from the chronically inflamed intestine resulting in depolarization of ankyrin-G protein. The decrease of Na-K-ATPase activity was comparable to that seen in ankyrin knockdown IEC-18 cells. Therefore, altered localization of Na-K-ATPase as a result of transcriptional down-regulation of ankyrin-G mediates the down-regulation of Na-K-ATPase activity during chronic intestinal inflammation. 


PMID- 25462167
TI  - Scolopendin 2, a cationic antimicrobial peptide from centipede, and its membrane-active mechanism.
AB  - Scolopendin 2 is a 16-mer peptide (AGLQFPVGRIGRLLRK) derived from the centipede Scolopendra subspinipes mutilans. We observed that this peptide exhibited antimicrobial activity in a salt-dependent manner against various fungal and bacterial pathogens and showed no hemolytic effect in the range of 1.6 MUM to 100 MUM. Circular dichroism analysis showed that the peptide has an alpha-helical properties. Furthermore, we determined the mechanism(s) of action using flow cytometry and by investigating the release of intracellular potassium. The results showed that the peptide permeabilized the membranes of Escherichia coli O157 and Candida albicans, resulting in loss of intracellular potassium ions. Additionally, bis-(1,3-dibutylbarbituric acid) trimethine oxonol and 3,3'-dipropylthiacarbocyanine iodide assays showed that the peptide caused membrane depolarization. Using giant unilamellar vesicles encapsulating calcein and large unilamellar vesicles containing fluorescein isothiocyanate-dextran, which were similar in composition to typical E. coli O157 and C. albicans membranes, we demonstrated that scolopendin 2 disrupts membranes, resulting in a pore size between 4.8 nm and 5.0 nm. Thus, we have demonstrated that a cationic antimicrobial peptide, scolopendin 2, exerts its broad-spectrum antimicrobial effects by forming pores in the cell membrane. 


PMID- 25462168
TI  - Transport across the outer membrane porin of mycolic acid containing actinomycetales: Nocardia farcinica.
AB  - The role of the outer-membrane channel from a mycolic acid containing Gram-positive bacteria Nocardia farcinica, which forms a hydrophilic pathway across the cell wall, was characterized. Single channel electrophysiology measurements and liposome swelling assays revealed the permeation of hydrophilic solutes including sugars, amino acids and antibiotics. The cation selective N. farcinica channel exhibited strong interaction with the positively charged antibiotics; amikacin and kanamycin, and surprisingly also with the negatively charged ertapenem. Voltage dependent kinetics of amikacin and kanamycin interactions were studied to distinguish binding from translocation. Moreover, the importance of charged residues inside the channel was investigated using mutational studies that revealed rate limiting interactions during the permeation.  


PMID- 25462169
TI  - Folding and stability of the aquaglyceroporin GlpF: Implications for human aqua(glycero)porin diseases.
AB  - Aquaporins are highly selective polytopic transmembrane channel proteins that facilitate the permeation of water across cellular membranes in a large diversity of organisms. Defects in aquaporin function are associated with common diseases, such as nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, congenital cataract and certain types of cancer. In general, aquaporins have a highly conserved structure; from prokaryotes to humans. The conserved structure, together with structural dynamics and the structural framework for substrate selectivity is discussed. The folding pathway of aquaporins has been a topic of several studies in recent years. These studies revealed that a conserved protein structure can be reached by following different folding pathways. Based on the available data, we suggest a complex folding pathway for aquaporins, starting from the insertion of individual helices up to the formation of the tetrameric aquaporin structure. The consequences of some known mutations in human aquaporin-encoding genes, which most likely affect the folding and stability of human aquaporins, are discussed.  


PMID- 25462170
TI  - VCA1008: An Anion-Selective Porin of Vibrio Cholerae.
AB  - A putative porin function has been assigned to VCA1008 of Vibrio cholerae. Its coding gene, vca1008, is expressed upon colonization of the small intestine in infant mice and human volunteers, and is essential for infection. In vitro, vca1008 is expressed under inorganic phosphate limitation and, in this condition, VCA1008 is the major outer membrane protein of the bacterium. Here, we provide the first functional characterization of VCA1008 reconstituted into planar lipid bilayers. Our main findings were: 1) VCA1008 forms an ion channel that, at high voltage (~+/-100 mV), presents a voltage-dependent activity and displays closures typical of trimeric porins, with a conductance of 4.28+/-0.04 nS (n=164) in 1M KCl; 2) It has a preferred selectivity for anions over cations; 3) Its conductance saturates with increasing inorganic phosphate concentration, suggesting VCA1008 contains binding site(s) for this anion; 4) Its ion selectivity is controlled by both fixed charged residues within the channel and diffusion along the pore; 5) Partitioning of poly (ethylene glycol)s (PEGs) of different molecular mass suggests that VCA1008 channel has a pore exclusion limit of 0.9 nm. 


PMID- 25462171
TI  - Effect of extracellular polymeric substances on the mechanical properties of Rhodococcus.
AB  - The mechanical properties of Rhodococcus RC291 were measured using force spectroscopy equipped with a bacterial cell probe. Rhodococcal cells in the late growth stage of development were found to have greater adhesion to a silicon oxide surface than those in the early growth stage. This is because there are more extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) that contain nonspecific binding sites available on the cells of late growth stage. It is found that EPS in the late exponential phase are less densely bound but consist of chains able to extend further into their local environment, while the denser EPS at the late stationary phase act more to sheath the cell. Contraction and extension of the EPS could change the density of the binding sites, and therefore affect the magnitude of the adhesion force between the EPS and the silicon oxide surface. By treating rhodococcal EPS as a surface-grafted polyelectrolyte layer and using scaling theory, the interaction between EPS and a solid substrate was modelled for the cell approaching the surface which revealed that EPS possess a large capacity to store charge. Changing the pH of the surrounding medium acts to change the conformation of EPS chains.  


PMID- 25462172
TI  - Very long chain ceramides interfere with C16-ceramide-induced channel formation: A plausible mechanism for regulating the initiation of intrinsic apoptosis.
AB  - Mitochondria mediate both cell survival and death. The intrinsic apoptotic pathway is initiated by the permeabilization of the mitochondrial outer membrane to pro-apoptotic inter-membrane space (IMS) proteins. Many pathways cause the egress of IMS proteins. Of particular interest is the ability of ceramide to self-assemble into dynamic water-filled channels. The formation of ceramide channels is regulated extensively by Bcl-2 family proteins and dihydroceramide. Here, we show that the chain length of biologically active ceramides serves as an important regulatory factor. Ceramides are synthesized by a family of six mammalian ceramide synthases (CerS) each of which produces a subset of ceramides that differ in their fatty acyl chain length. Various ceramides permeabilize mitochondria differentially. Interestingly, the presence of very long chain ceramides reduces the potency of C16-mediated mitochondrial permeabilization indicating that the intercalation of the lipids in the dynamic channel has a destabilizing effect, reminiscent of dihydroceramide inhibition of ceramide channel formation (Stiban et al., 2006). Moreover, mitochondria isolated from cells overexpressing the ceramide synthase responsible for the production of C16-ceramide (CerS5) are permeabilized faster upon the exogenous addition of C16-ceramide whereas they are resistant to permeabilization with added C24-ceramide. On the other hand mitochondria isolated from CerS2-overexpressing cells show the opposite pattern, indicating that the product of CerS2 inhibits C16-channel formation ex vivo and vice versa. This interplay between different ceramide metabolic enzymes and their products adds a new dimension to the complexity of mitochondrial-mediated apoptosis, and emphasizes its role as a key regulatory step that commits cells to life or death.  


PMID- 25462174
TI  - Neutral diiron(III) complexes with Fe2(MU-E)2 (E = O, S, Se) core structures: reactivity of an iron(I) dimer towards chalcogens.
AB  - Three neutral bis(MU-chalcogenido)diiron(III) complexes, [{(N,N'-Pipiso)Fe(MU-E)}2] (Pipiso(-) = [(DipN)2C(cis-2,6-Me2NC5H8)](-), (Dip = C6H3Pr(I)2-2,6; E = O, S or Se) have been prepared by reactions of the iron(I) dimer [{(MU-N,N'-Pipiso)Fe}2] with O2, S8 or Seinfinity. Treating the MU-selenido compound [{(N,N'-Pipiso)Fe(MU-Se)}2] with O2 cleanly generated its MU-oxo counterpart, [{(N,N'-Pipiso)Fe(MU-O)}2]. X-ray crystallographic analyses of the compounds showed them to possess Fe2(MU-E)2 core structures with distorted square planar (E = O) or tetrahedral (E = S or Se) iron coordination geometries. Magnetic, (57)Fe Mossbauer spectroscopic and computational studies indicate medium to strong antiferromagnetic coupling between the two high-spin Fe(III) ions in all three compounds. 


PMID- 25462173
TI  - Chronic heart damage following doxorubicin treatment is alleviated by lovastatin.
AB  - The anticancer efficacy of anthracyclines is limited by cumulative dose-dependent early and delayed cardiotoxicity resulting in congestive heart failure. Mechanisms responsible for anthracycline-induced heart damage are controversially discussed and effective preventive measures are preferable. Here, we analyzed the influence of the lipid lowering drug lovastatin on anthracycline-induced late cardiotoxicity three month after treatment of C57BL/6 mice with five low doses of doxorubicin (5*3mg/kg BW; i.p.). Doxorubicin increased the cardiac mRNA levels of BNP, IL-6 and CTGF, while the expression of ANP remained unchanged. Lovastatin counteracted these persisting cardiac stress responses evoked by the anthracycline. Doxorubicin-induced fibrotic alterations were neither detected by histochemical collagen staining of heart sections nor by analysis of the mRNA expression of collagens. Extensive qRT-PCR-array based analyses revealed a large increase in the mRNA level of heat shock protein Hspa1b in doxorubicin-treated mice, which was mitigated by lovastatin co-treatment. Electron microscopy together with qPCR-based analysis of mitochondrial DNA content indicate that lovastatin attenuates doxorubicin-stimulated hyperproliferation of mitochondria. This was not paralleled by increased expression of oxidative stress responsive genes or senescence-associated proteins. Echocardiographic analyses disclosed that lovastatin protects from the doxorubicin-induced decrease in the left ventricular posterior wall diameter (LVPWD), while constrictions in fractional shortening (FS) and ejection fraction (EF) evoked by doxorubicin were not amended by the statin. Taken together, the data suggest beneficial effects of lovastatin against doxorubicin-induced delayed cardiotoxicity. Clinical studies are preferable to scrutinize the usefulness of statins for the prevention of anthracycline-induced late cardiotoxicity.  


PMID- 25462175
TI  - Interferon gamma is involved in apoptosis of trophoblast cells at the maternal-fetal interface following Toxoplasma gondii infection.
AB  - OBJECTIVE: To assess whether interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) secreted by decidual natural killer (dNK) cells at the maternal-fetal interface is involved in the apoptosis of trophoblast cells (trophoblasts) following Toxoplasma gondii infection. METHODS: Human dNK cells were infected with T. gondii and then co-cultured with trophoblasts. The infected co-cultured cells were treated with or without IFN-gamma neutralizing antibodies. Uninfected co-cultured cells were used as controls. The level of IFN-gamma in the supernatant of co-culture was measured by ELISA and the apoptosis of trophoblasts was analyzed by flow cytometry. The expression of caspase 3 and caspase 8 of trophoblasts cells was determined by Western blotting and real-time RT-PCR. RESULTS: The levels of IFN-gamma were increased at <24h following T. gondii infection and were maintained thereafter. Caspase 3, caspase 8, and the apoptosis of trophoblasts co-cultured with dNK cells were increased compared with the control. Meanwhile, IFN-gamma, caspase 3, caspase 8, and trophoblast apoptosis were up-regulated upon increased ratios of dNK cells to trophoblasts. Compared to the infected group, the levels of IFN-gamma, caspase 3, caspase 8, and trophoblast apoptosis were significantly decreased upon treatment with the IFN-gamma neutralizing antibody. IFN-gamma levels were correlated positively with the apoptosis of trophoblasts (r=0.7163, p < 0.01). CONCLUSIONS: The levels of IFN-gamma secreted by dNK cells at the maternal-fetal interface were closely correlated with the apoptosis of trophoblasts upon T. gondii infection. The apoptosis of trophoblasts induced by the increase in IFN-gamma depended on the caspase pathway, which may contribute to the abnormal pregnancy outcomes that occur with T. gondii infection. 


PMID- 25462176
TI  - First case of osteomyelitis due to Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae: pubic osteomyelitis in a gored farmer.
AB  - We report the first proven case of osteomyelitis due to Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae. This infection occurred almost 20 years after traumatic inoculation of the bacterium, when the patient was gored by one of his cows. Diagnosis was made by bone biopsies, and treatment included rifampicin and levofloxacin for 3 months.  


PMID- 25462177
TI  - Polymorphism of the IL28B gene (rs8099917, rs12979860) and virological response of Pakistani hepatitis C virus genotype 3 patients to pegylated interferon therapy.
AB  - BACKGROUND: The gold standard treatment for chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is pegylated interferon (PEG-IFN) in combination with ribavirin. Most patients treated with PEG-IFN achieve a sustained virological response (SVR). However host genetic factors play a vital role in the spontaneous and treatment-induced clearance of HCV infection from these infected patients. In the current study, polymorphisms of IL28B (rs8099917 and rs12979860) were analyzed and their association with the virological response to PEG-IFN alpha treatment was determined. METHODS: One hundred and fifty HCV genotype 3 patients were assessed to study the correlation of IL28B with a therapeutic regimen of PEG-IFN alpha plus ribavirin. Twenty patients were excluded due to a refusal to participate in the study and 25 patients failed to meet the inclusion criteria. Of the 105 patients recruited, 49 (46.7%) were male and 56 (53.3%) were female. In order to determine single nucleotide polymorphisms of rs8099917 and rs12979860, the sample was amplified by PCR and then IL28B typing was carried out by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) followed by standard sequencing. RESULTS: We found three types of genotype in rs8099917 of IL28B: wild-type TT in 60.0% of patients, heterozygous GT minor genotype in 36.2%, and GG in 3.8%. The frequency of the CC genotype of rs12979860 was 54.3%, CT was 37.1%, and TT was 8.6%. Overall, SVR was achieved in 68.6% of patients. A higher SVR was achieved for patients with the favorable genotype CC of rs12979860, with 84.2% as compared to 56.4% and 22.2% for minor genotype CT and TT, respectively (p=0.0001). We did not find a significant association for SVR to antiviral treatment in patients with genotype TT (rs8099917) (71.9%, p=0.36). The rapid virological response (RVR) rate was significantly higher in patients with major genotype TT (88.9%, p=0.04). These results show that IL28B polymorphism is highly associated with SVR to therapy in the Pakistani population infected with HCV genotype 3. CONCLUSIONS: HCV-infected patients carrying homozygous C/C have a higher chance of SVR. In addition, patients who carry T/T (rs8099917) have a higher chance of RVR. 


PMID- 25462178
TI  - An albumin, collagen IV, and longitudinal diameter of spleen scoring system superior to APRI for assessing liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis B patients.
AB  - OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to screen the non-invasive indexes correlated with liver fibrosis and establish a scoring system for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis in hepatitis B patients. METHODS: Data of 34 non-invasive indexes were collected for 208 hepatitis B patients. Correlation analysis and stepwise discriminant analysis was used to screen out indexes useful for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis. Finally, a scoring system composed of indexes screened out by stepwise discriminant analysis was established for the assessment of liver fibrosis. RESULTS: Twenty-one indexes correlating with liver fibrosis were screened out by correlation analysis; hyaluronic acid had the highest r-value, 0.456. A scoring system including albumin, collagen IV, and the longitudinal diameter of the spleen was established. The areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves (AUC) for this scoring system and the aspartate aminotransferase to platelet ratio index (APRI) in differentiating S3-4 from S0-2 were 0.79 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.72-0.85) and 0.27 (95% CI 0.18-0.35), respectively. With a cut-off value of <3, the presence of significant fibrosis (S3-4) could be excluded by this scoring system with a negative predictive value of 86.1% and sensitivity of 86.8%. With a cut-off of >6, the presence of S3-4 fibrosis could be correctly identified with a positive predictive value of 73.6% and specificity of 87.6%. Using this scoring system, 53.4% of patients could be classified correctly and avoid liver biopsy. CONCLUSIONS: The scoring system provides a simpler method to identify significant fibrosis (S3-4) in chronic hepatitis B patients. 


PMID- 25462179
TI  - The impact of temperature and humidity measures on influenza A (H7N9) outbreaks-evidence from China.
AB  - OBJECTIVES: To examine the non-linear effects of meteorological factors on the incidence of influenza A H7N9 and to determine what meteorological measure, and on which day preceding symptom onset, has the most significant effect on H7N9 infection. METHODS: We applied a zero truncated Poisson regression model incorporating smoothed spline functions to assess the non-linear effect of temperature (maximum, minimum, and daily difference) and relative humidity on H7N9 human case numbers occurring in China from February 19, 2013 to February 18, 2014, adjusting for the effects of age and gender. RESULTS: Both daily minimum and daily maximum temperature contributed significantly to human infection with the influenza A H7N9 virus. Models incorporating the non-linear effect of minimum or maximum temperature on day 13 prior to disease onset were found to have the best predictive ability. For minimum temperature, high risk was found to range from approximately 5 to 9 degrees C and moderate risk from -10 to 0 degrees C; temperatures of >9 degrees C represented a low risk. For maximum temperature, high risk was found to range from approximately 13 to 18 degrees C and moderate risk from 0 to 4 degrees C; temperatures of >18 degrees C represented a low risk. Relative humidity was not significantly associated with the incidence of infection. The incidence of H7N9 was higher for males compared to females (p<0.01) and it peaked at around 60-70 years of age. CONCLUSIONS: We provide direct evidence to support the role of climate conditions in the spread of H7N9 and thereby address a critical question fundamental to our understanding of the epidemiology and evolution of H7N9. These findings could be used to inform targeted surveillance and control efforts aimed at reducing the future spread of H7N9. 


PMID- 25462180
TI  - Estimating influenza vaccine effectiveness using routine surveillance data among children aged 6-59 months for five consecutive influenza seasons.
AB  - OBJECTIVES: We aimed to estimate the pooled vaccine effectiveness (VE) in children over five winters through data linkage of two existing surveillance systems. METHODS: Five test-negative case-control studies were conducted from November to February during the 2004/2005 to 2008/2009 seasons. Sentinel physicians from the Viral Surveillance Network enrolled children aged 6-59 months with influenza-like illness to collect throat swabs. Through linking with a nationwide vaccination registry, we measured the VE with a logistic regression model adjusting for age, gender, and week of symptom onset. Both fixed-effects and random-effects models were used in the meta-analysis. RESULTS: Four thousand four hundred and ninety-four subjects were included. The proportion of influenza test-positive subjects across the five seasons was 11.5% (132/1151), 7.2% (41/572), 23.9% (189/791), 6.6% (75/1135), and 11.2% (95/845), respectively. The pooled VE was 62% (95% confidence interval (CI) 48-83%) in both meta-analysis models. By age category, VE was 51% (95% CI 23-68%) for those aged 6-23 months and 75% (95% CI 60-84%) for those aged 24-59 months. CONCLUSIONS: Influenza vaccination provided measurable protection against laboratory-confirmed influenza among children aged 6-59 months despite variations in the vaccine match during the 2004/2005 to 2008/2009 influenza seasons in Taiwan. 


PMID- 25462181
TI  - Toxocara canis-associated visceral larva migrans of the liver.
AB  - 


PMID- 25462182
TI  - B-type natriuretic peptide in infective endocarditis.
AB  - 


PMID- 25462183
TI  - OXA-48-producing Enterobacteriaceae causing bacteremia, United Arab Emirates.
AB  - OXA-48-producing isolates were identified in approximately 4% and less than 1% of ESBL-producing and non-ESBL-producing E. coli and K. pneumoniae causing bacteremia at the largest tertiary hospital in Abu Dhabi.  


PMID- 25462184
TI  - Gender-related differences in outcomes and attrition on antiretroviral treatment among an HIV-infected patient cohort in Zimbabwe: 2007-2010.
AB  - OBJECTIVES: To determine (1) gender-related differences in antiretroviral therapy (ART) outcomes, and (2) gender-specific characteristics associated with attrition. METHODS: This was a retrospective patient record review of 3919 HIV-infected patients aged >=15 years who initiated ART between 2007 and 2009 in 40 randomly selected ART facilities countrywide. RESULTS: Compared to females, males had more documented active tuberculosis (12% vs. 9%; p<0.02) and a lower median CD4 cell count (117 cells/MUl vs. 143 cells/MUl; p<0.001) at ART initiation. Males had a higher risk of attrition (adjusted hazard ratio (AHR) 1.28, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.10-1.49) and mortality (AHR 1.56, 95% CI 1.10-2.20). Factors associated with attrition for both sexes were lower baseline weight (<45kg and 45-60kg vs. >60kg), initiating ART at an urban health facility, and care at central/provincial or district/mission hospitals vs. primary healthcare facilities. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings show that males presented late for ART initiation compared to females. Similar to other studies, males had higher patient attrition and mortality compared to females and this may be attributed in part to late presentation for HIV treatment and care. These observations highlight the need to encourage early HIV testing and enrolment into HIV treatment and care, and eventually patient retention on ART, particularly amongst men. 


PMID- 25462185
TI  - Dominance of two genotypes of Bordetella pertussis during a period of increased pertussis activity in Alberta, Canada: January to August 2012.
AB  - OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to undertake an epidemiological analysis of an increase in Bordetella pertussis activity during the period January 1 to August 31, 2012 in Alberta, Canada. B. pertussis testing was done using an IS481 real-time PCR assay with PCR-positive and indeterminate specimens cultured and stored for further analysis. METHODS: Laboratory data were linked to Alberta Health (AH) cases that were reported in the Communicable Disease Reporting System (CDRS) to identify case isolates; exclusion criteria were used to avoid biases. Case isolates were analyzed at the National Microbiology Laboratory (NML) by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and multilocus sequence typing (MLST). Pertussis immunization data were extracted from the Alberta Provincial Immunization Repository (Imm/ARI) and linked to the pertussis cases. RESULTS: Using PFGE and MLST, 52 case isolates could be divided into two main sequence type groups: 41 cases belonged to the ST-1 group (ST-1 and the novel ST-19) and 11 cases belonged to the ST-2 group (ST-2 and the novel ST-20). Of the total cases genotyped (N=52), 18 (34.6%) had a history of immunization, 28 (53.8%) were not immunized, and six (11.6%) had an unknown immunization history. Of the total non-immunized cases, 25/28 (89.2%) belonged to the ST-1 group. Furthermore, of the 41 ST-1 group cases, 25 were not immunized compared to only three of the ST-2 group cases (p=0.0004, Fisher's exact test). CONCLUSIONS: This study shows the dominance of two genotypes of B. pertussis in our jurisdiction and indicates less pertussis immunization in individuals infected with the ST-1 group. 


PMID- 25462186
TI  - Comparative performance of the GeneXpert C. difficile PCR assay and C. diff Quik Chek Complete kit assay for detection of Clostridium difficile antigen and toxins in symptomatic community-onset infections.
AB  - OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the performance of the GeneXpert C. difficile assay and C. diff Quik Chek Complete (QCC) kit for the detection of toxins from fecal specimens and cooked meat broth (CMB) culture using toxigenic stool culture as reference method, for the diagnosis of C. difficile infection (CDI) in a community setting. METHODS: Non-repeat stool samples were tested simultaneously by GeneXpert and QCC. Toxin detection was done on neat stool samples, inoculated CMB, and isolated colonies. RESULTS: Nineteen (4.6%) of 409 samples were positive for glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) in stool and CMB by the QCC assay; seven (1.7%) were positive for both GDH and toxins A/B. The sensitivities of QCC to detect C. difficile toxin directly in stool specimens and CMB were 68.4% and 100%, respectively, while specificities were 100% and 83%, respectively. C. difficile toxin was detected in 10 (2.5%) specimens and 13 (3.2%) CMB. Thirteen (68.4%) of 19 isolates were positive for C. difficile toxin by GeneXpert and QCC and were taken as the reference toxigenic culture. The disease burden was thus 3.2%. The sensitivities of GeneXpert in stool and CMB were 81.3% and 100%, respectively, while specificities were 100% and 100%, respectively. CONCLUSION: The GeneXpert assay was more sensitive than QCC for the detection of C. difficile toxin in stool, but both assays were highly specific. 


PMID- 25462187
TI  - Viral genome and antiviral drug sensitivity analysis of two patients from a family cluster caused by the influenza A(H7N9) virus in Zhejiang, China, 2013.
AB  - OBJECTIVES: In the winter of 2013, people were facing the risk of human-to-human transmission of the re-emerging influenza A(H7N9) virus. We report herein information on the clinical features of two patients from the same family infected with this virus, the genomic sequences of the viruses harbored, and antiviral drug sensitivity. METHODS: Clinical and epidemiological data of two patients from the same family were collected and analyzed. Sequencing was done for the viruses isolated from these two patients and one epidemiologically related chicken, and the sequences of the eight gene segments of the viruses were analyzed phylogenetically. The sensitivity of the viruses to antiviral drug treatment was determined by neuraminidase inhibitor susceptibility test. RESULTS: The two patients from one family cluster shared the same symptoms but had different outcomes, and had a strong epidemiological link. Three strains, two from these two patients and one from the chicken, were isolated. Genome sequencing and analyses of phylogenetic trees demonstrated that the two viruses were almost identical. We noted the presence of the PB2 E627K amino acid substitution that was not present in isolates from the first wave, as well as two new mutations in the NA gene and six in the PB2 gene. Drug sensitivity testing showed that the new isolates were resistant to oseltamivir but sensitive to peramivir. CONCLUSIONS: The two patients from one family cluster were probable human-to-human transmission cases. The new isolates were sensitive to peramivir but showed reduced sensitivity to oseltamivir. 


PMID- 25462188
TI  - Stenotrophomonas maltophilia with histopathological features mimicking cutaneous gamma/delta T-cell lymphoma.
AB  - We report a case of cutaneous Stenotrophomonas maltophilia infection which presented with clinical and histopathological findings that mimicked a gamma/delta (gammadelta) T-cell lymphoma. In this case, tissue culture of the biopsy specimen was key to determining the diagnosis and allowing appropriate treatment with oral trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and topical silvadene. A prompt complete resolution of lesions was observed following antibiotic treatment, with no recurrence of disease over the last 5 years, supporting an infectious rather than malignant etiology. In our patient, radiation therapy was indicated based on the misdiagnosis of gammadelta T-cell lymphoma, which was supported both clinically and histopathologically. However, tissue culture in this case avoided unnecessary radiation exposure and highlights the role of tissue culture in the evaluation of the biopsy of an undiagnosed cutaneous lesion.  


PMID- 25462189
TI  - Models of charge pair generation in organic solar cells.
AB  - Efficient charge pair generation is observed in many organic photovoltaic (OPV) heterojunctions, despite nominal electron-hole binding energies which greatly exceed the average thermal energy. Empirically, the efficiency of this process appears to be related to the choice of donor and acceptor materials, the resulting sequence of excited state energy levels and the structure of the interface. In order to establish a suitable physical model for the process, a range of different theoretical studies have addressed the nature and energies of the interfacial states, the energetic profile close to the heterojunction and the dynamics of excited state transitions. In this paper, we review recent developments underpinning the theory of charge pair generation and phenomena, focussing on electronic structure calculations, electrostatic models and approaches to excited state dynamics. We discuss the remaining challenges in achieving a predictive approach to charge generation efficiency.  


PMID- 25462190
TI  - Epidemiology, risk factors and genotypes of HBV in HIV-infected patients in the northeast region of Colombia: high prevalence of occult hepatitis B and F3 subgenotype dominance.
AB  - INTRODUCTION: Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is an increasing cause of morbidity and mortality in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected individuals. HIV-positive patients are commonly co-infected with HBV due to shared routes of transmission. OBJECTIVES: Our aim was to determine the risk factors, prevalence, genotypes, and mutations of the Surface S gene of HBV, and occult hepatitis B infection (OBI) among patients infected with HIV in a northeastern Colombian city. METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted with 275 HIV-positive patients attending an outpatient clinic in Bucaramanga, Colombia during 2009-2010. Blood samples were collected and screened for serological markers of HBV (anti-HBs, anti-HBc and HBsAg) through ELISA assay. Regardless of their serological profile, all samples were tested for the HBV S gene by nested-PCR and HBV genotypes were determined by phylogenetic inference. Clinical records were used to examine demographic, clinical, virological, immunological and antiretroviral therapy (ART) variables of HIV infection. RESULTS: Participants were on average 37+/-11 years old and 65.1% male. The prevalence of HIV-HBV coinfection was 12% (95%CI 8.4-16.4) of which 3.3% had active HBV infection and 8.7% OBI. The prevalence of HIV-HBV coinfection was associated with AIDS stage and ART treatment. Sequence analysis identified genotype F, subgenotype F3 in 93.8% of patients and genotype A in 6.2% of patients. A C149R mutation, which may have resulted from failure in HBsAg detection, was found in one patient with OBI. CONCLUSIONS: The present study found a high prevalence of HIV-HBV coinfection with an incidence of OBI 2.6-fold higher compared to active HBV infection. These findings suggest including HBV DNA testing to detect OBI in addition to screening for HBV serological markers in HIV patients. 


PMID- 25462191
TI  - Exploring human 40S ribosomal proteins binding to the 18S rRNA fragment containing major 3'-terminal domain.
AB  - Association of ribosomal proteins with rRNA during assembly of ribosomal subunits is an intricate process, which is strictly regulated in vivo. As for the assembly in vitro, it was reported so far only for prokaryotic subunits. Bacterial ribosomal proteins are capable of selective binding to 16S rRNA as well as to its separate morphological domains. In this work, we explored binding of total protein of human 40S ribosomal subunit to the RNA transcript corresponding to the major 3'-domain of 18S rRNA. We showed that the resulting ribonucleoprotein particles contained almost all of the expected ribosomal proteins, whose binding sites are located in this 18S rRNA domain in the 40S subunit, together with several nonspecific proteins. The binding in solution was accompanied with aggregation of the RNA-protein complexes. Ribosomal proteins bound to the RNA transcript protected from chemical modification mostly those 18S rRNA nucleotides that are known to be involved in binding with the proteins in the 40S subunit and thereby demonstrated their ability to selectively bind to the rRNA in vitro. The possible implication of unstructured extensions of eukaryotic ribosomal proteins in their nonspecific binding with rRNA and in subsequent aggregation of the resulting complexes is discussed.  


PMID- 25462192
TI  - DAMPs and neurodegeneration.
AB  - The concept of neuroinflammation has come a full circle; from being initially regarded as a controversial viewpoint to its present day acceptance as an integral component of neurodegenerative processes. A closer look at the etiopathogenesis of many neurodegenerative conditions will reveal a patho-symbiotic relationship between neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration, where the two liaise with each other to form a self-sustaining vicious cycle that facilitates neuronal demise. Here, we focus on damage associated molecular patterns or DAMPs as a potentially important nexus in the context of this lethal neuroinflammation-neurodegeneration alliance. Since their nomenclature as "DAMPs" about a decade ago, these endogenous moieties have consistently been reported as novel players in sterile (non-infective) inflammation. However, their roles in inflammatory responses in the central nervous system (CNS), especially during chronic neurodegenerative disorders are still being actively researched. The aim of this review is to first provide a general overview of the neuroimmune response in the CNS within the purview of DAMPs, its receptors and downstream signaling. This is then followed by discussions on some of the DAMP-mediated neuroinflammatory responses involved in chronic neurodegenerative diseases. Along the way, we also highlighted some important gaps in our existing knowledge regarding the role of DAMPs in neurodegeneration, the clarification of which we believe would aid in the prospects of developing treatment or screening strategies directed at these molecules.  


PMID- 25462193
TI  - ShcC proteins: brain aging and beyond.
AB  - To date, most studies of Shc family of signaling adaptor proteins have been focused on the near-ubiquitously expressed ShcA, indicating its relevance to age-related diseases and longevity. Although the role of the neuronal ShcC protein is much less investigated, accumulated evidence suggests its importance for neuroprotection against such aging-associated conditions as brain ischemia and oxidative stress. Here, we summarize more than decade of studies on the ShcC expression and function in normal brain, age-related brain pathologies and immune disorders with a focus on the interactions of ShcC with signaling proteins/pathways, and the possible implications of these interactions for changes associated with aging.  


PMID- 25462195
TI  - Consistent age-dependent declines in human semen quality: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
AB  - Reduced fertility typically occurs among women in their late 30s, but increasing evidence indicates that advanced paternal age is associated with changes in reproduction as well. Numerous studies have investigated age-based declines in semen traits, but the impact of paternal age on semen parameter values remains inconclusive. Using data from 90 studies (93,839 subjects), we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to quantify the effect of male age on seven ejaculate traits (semen volume, sperm concentration, total sperm count, morphology, total motility, progressive motility and DNA fragmentation). Age-associated declines in semen volume, percentage motility, progressive motility, normal morphology and unfragmented cells were statistically significant and results generally seemed to be robust against confounding factors. Unexpectedly, sperm concentration did not decline with increasing male age, even though we found that sperm concentration declined over time. Our findings indicate that male age needs more recognition as a potential contributor to the negative pregnancy outcomes and reduced offspring health associated with delayed first reproduction. We suggest that greater focus on collection of DNA fragmentation and progressive motility in a clinical setting may lead to better patient outcomes during fertility treatments of aging couples.  


PMID- 25462196
TI  - Weight dependent modulation of motor resonance induced by weight estimation during observation of partially occluded lifting actions.
AB  - Seeing others performing an action induces the observers' motor cortex to "resonate" with the observed action. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) studies suggest that such motor resonance reflects the encoding of various motor features of the observed action, including the apparent motor effort. However, it is unclear whether such encoding requires direct observation or whether force requirements can be inferred when the moving body part is partially occluded. To address this issue, we presented participants with videos of a right hand lifting a box of three different weights and asked them to estimate its weight. During each trial we delivered one transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) pulse over the left primary motor cortex of the observer and recorded the motor evoked potentials (MEPs) from three muscles of the right hand (first dorsal interosseous, FDI, abductor digiti minimi, ADM, and brachioradialis, BR). Importantly, because the hand shown in the videos was hidden behind a screen, only the contractions in the actor's BR muscle under the bare skin were observable during the entire videos, while the contractions in the actor's FDI and ADM muscles were hidden during the grasp and actual lift. The amplitudes of the MEPs recorded from the BR (observable) and FDI (hidden) muscle increased with the weight of the box. These findings indicate that the modulation of motor excitability induced by action observation extends to the cortical representation of muscles with contractions that could not be observed. Thus, motor resonance appears to reflect force requirements of observed lifting actions even when the moving body part is occluded from view.  


PMID- 25462197
TI  - Semantic variability predicts neural variability of object concepts.
AB  - The prevailing approach to the neuroscientific study of concepts is to characterize the neural pattern evoked by a given concept, averaging over any variation that might occur upon multiple retrieval attempts (e.g., across time, tasks, or people). This approach-which diverges substantially from approaches to studying conceptual processing with other methods-treats all variation as noise. Here, our goal is to determine whether variation in neural patterns evoked by semantic retrieval of a given concept is more than just measurement error, and instead reflects variation arising from contextual variability. We measured each concept's diversity of semantic contexts ("SV") by analyzing its word frequency and co-occurrence statistics in large text corpora. To measure neural variability, we conducted an fMRI study and sampled neural activity associated with each concept when it appeared in three separate, randomized contexts. We predicted that concepts with low SV would exhibit uniform activation patterns across stimulus presentations, whereas concepts with high SV would exhibit more dynamic representations over time. We observed that a concept's SV score predicted its corresponding neural variability. This finding supports a flexible, distributed organization of semantic memory, where a concept's meaning and its neural activity patterns both continuously vary across contexts.  


PMID- 25462194
TI  - Sleep disorders, obesity, and aging: the role of orexin.
AB  - The hypothalamic neuropeptides orexin A and B (hypocretin 1 and 2) are important homeostatic mediators of central control of energy metabolism and maintenance of sleep/wake states. Dysregulation or loss of orexin signaling has been linked to narcolepsy, obesity, and age-related disorders. In this review, we present an overview of our current understanding of orexin function, focusing on sleep disorders, energy balance, and aging, in both rodents and humans. We first discuss animal models used in studies of obesity and sleep, including loss of function using transgenic or viral-mediated approaches, gain of function models using exogenous delivery of orexin receptor agonist, and naturally-occurring models in which orexin responsiveness varies by individual. We next explore rodent models of orexin in aging, presenting evidence that orexin loss contributes to age-related changes in sleep and energy balance. In the next section, we focus on clinical importance of orexin in human obesity, sleep, and aging. We include discussion of orexin loss in narcolepsy and potential importance of orexin in insomnia, correlations between animal and human studies of age-related decline, and evidence for orexin involvement in age-related changes in cognitive performance. Finally, we present a summary of recent studies of orexin in neurodegenerative disease. We conclude that orexin acts as an integrative homeostatic signal influencing numerous brain regions, and that this pivotal role results in potential dysregulation of multiple physiological processes when orexin signaling is disrupted or lost.  


PMID- 25462198
TI  - Dissociating effect of upper limb non-use and overuse on space and body representations.
AB  - Accurate and updated representations of the space where the body acts, i.e. the peripersonal space (PPS), and the location and dimension of body parts (body representation, BR) are essential to perform actions. Because both PPS and BR are involved in motor execution and display the same plastic proprieties after the use of a tool to reach far objects, it has been suggested that they overlap in a unique representation of the body in a space devoted to action. Here we determined whether manipulating actions in space, without modifying body metrics, i.e. through immobilization, induces a dissociation of the plastic properties of PPS and BR. In 39 healthy subjects we evaluated PPS and BR for the non-used right limb and the overused left limb before and after 10 h of right arm immobilization. We observed that non-use reduces PPS representation around the immobilized arm, without affecting the metric representation (i.e. perceived length) of that limb. In contrast, overuse modulates the metric representation of the free arm, leaving PPS unchanged around that limb. These results suggest that the plasticity in PPS and BR depends on different mechanisms; while PPS representation is shaped as a function of the dimension of the acting space, metric characteristics of BR are forged on a complex interplay between visual and sensorimotor information related to the body. This behavioral dissociation between PPS and BR defines a new scenario for the role of action in shaping space and body representations. 


PMID- 25462199
TI  - Impact of morcellation on survival outcomes of patients with unexpected uterine leiomyosarcoma: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
AB  - OBJECTIVE: To review the current evidence on the effects of intra-abdominal morcellation on survival outcomes of patients affected by unexpected uterine leiomyosarcoma (ULMS) and to estimate the risk of recurrence in those patients. METHODS: PubMed (MEDLINE), Scopus, Embase, Web of Science databases as well as ClinicalTrials.gov, were searched for data evaluating the effects of intra-abdominal morcellation on survival outcomes of patients with undiagnosed ULMS. Studies were evaluated per the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) guidelines. RESULTS: Sixty manuscripts were screened, 11 (18%) were selected and four (7%) were included. Overall, 202 patients were included: 75 (37%) patients had morcellation of ULMS, while 127 (63%) patients had not. A meta-analysis of these studies showed that morcellation increased the overall (62% vs. 39%; OR: 3.16 (95% CI: 1.38, 7.26)) and intra-abdominal (39% vs. 9%; OR: 4.11 (95% CI: 1.92, 8.81)) recurrence rates as well as death rate (48% vs. 29%; OR: 2.42 (95% CI: 1.19, 4.92)). No between-group difference in cumulative extra-abdominal recurrence (OR: 0.34 (95% CI: 0.07, 1.59)) rate was observed. CONCLUSIONS: Our data support a significant correlation between uterine morcellation and an increased risk of intra-abdominal recurrence in patients affected by unexpected ULMS. However, the limited data on this issue and the absence of high level of evidence suggest the need of further studies designed to estimate the risk to benefit ratio of morcellation in patients with uterine fibroids and undiagnosed ULMS. 


PMID- 25462200
TI  - A systematic review of the supportive care needs of women living with and beyond cervical cancer.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Women with cervical cancer constitute a patient population in need for ongoing, person-centred supportive care. Our aim was to synthesise current available evidence with regard to the supportive care needs of women living with and beyond cervical cancer. METHODS: A systematic review was conducted according to the PRISMA Statement guidelines. Seven electronic databases (DARE, Cochrane, MEDLINE, CINAHL, BNI, PsychINFO and EMBASE) were searched to identify studies employing qualitative and/or quantitative methods. Pre-specified selection criteria were applied to all records published between 1990 and 2013. Methodological quality evaluation was conducted using the standardised QualSyst evaluation tool. Findings were integrated in a narrative synthesis. FINDINGS: Of 4936 references initially retrieved, 15 articles (13 unique studies) met eligibility criteria. One study fell below a pre-specified 55% threshold of methodological quality and was excluded. Individual needs were classified into ten domains of need. Interpersonal/intimacy (10; 83.3%), health system/information (8; 66.7%), psychological/emotional (7; 58.3%) and physical needs (6; 50%) were those most frequently explored. Spiritual/existential (1; 8.3%), family-related (2; 16.7%), practical (2; 16.7%), and daily living needs (2; 16.7%) were only rarely explored. Patient-clinician communication needs and social needs were addressed in 4 studies (33.3%). Dealing with fear of cancer recurrence, concerns about appearance/body image, lack of sexual desire, requiring more sexuality-related information, dealing with pain, and dealing with difficulties in relationship with partner were the most frequently cited individual needs (>=4 studies). CONCLUSIONS: Despite a host of additional needs experienced by women with cervical cancer, a predominant focus on sexuality/intimacy and information seeking issues is noted. Study limitations preclude drawing conclusions as to how these needs evolve over time from diagnosis to treatment and subsequently to survivorship. Whether demographic or clinical variables such as age, race/ethnicity, disease stage or treatment modality play a moderating role, only remains to be answered in future studies. 


PMID- 25462201
TI  - Transversus abdominis plane block in robotic gynecologic oncology: a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
AB  - OBJECTIVE: Although robotic surgery decreases pain compared to laparotomy, postoperative pain can be a concern near the site of a larger assistant trocar site. The aim of this study was to determine the efficacy of transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block on 24-hour postoperative opiate use after robotic surgery for gynecologic cancer. METHODS: Sixty-four subjects with gynecologic malignancies who were scheduled to undergo robotic surgery were enrolled into the study. They were randomized to receive a unilateral TAP block to the side of the assistant port via ultrasound guidance. The block was comprised of 30 cc of 0.25% bupivacaine with 3 mcg/mL epinephrine or saline. Opiate use was measured and converted into IV morphine equivalents. Patient-reported pain was measured using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) and Visual Analog Scale (VAS). RESULTS: The treatment group used a mean of 64.9 mg morphine in the first 24h compared to 69.3mg for controls (primary outcome, p=0.52). After age-adjustment, the treatment group used a mean of 11.1mg morphine less than controls (p=0.09). Postoperative pain scores assessed by the BPI (6.44 vs. 6.97, p=0.37) and the VAS (3.12 vs. 3.61, p=0.30) were equivalent. Block placement was uncomplicated in 98.4% of participants with mean BMI of 35.3 kg/m(2). Linear regression revealed an approximate 8.1mg decrease in morphine equivalents used per additional decade of life (p=0.0008). There was a positive correlation between the amount of opiates and BMI with an additional 8.8 mg of morphine per 10 kg/m(2) increase in BMI (p=0.0012). CONCLUSIONS: TAP block is safe and feasible in this patient population with a large proportion of morbid obesity. Preoperative TAP block does not significantly decrease opiate use. However; based on these data, a clinically useful nomogram has been created to aid clinicians in postoperative opiate-dosing for patients based on age and BMI. 


PMID- 25462202
TI  - Health related quality of life and patient reported symptoms before and during definitive radio(chemo)therapy using image-guided adaptive brachytherapy for locally advanced cervical cancer and early recovery - a mono-institutional prospective study.
AB  - OBJECTIVE: To evaluate health-related quality of life (HR-QoL) and patient reported symptoms (PRS) before, during and early after treatment with external-beam radiotherapy (EBRT), chemotherapy and image-guided adaptive brachytherapy (IGABT) for locally advanced cervical cancer. METHODS: In fifty consecutive patients, HR-QoL and PRS were prospectively assessed with the EORTC-QLQ-C30+CX24 questionnaire prior to and during treatment, one week after IGABT and three months thereafter. HR-QoL was compared to an age-matched, female normative reference population. Prevalence rates of individual PRS are presented and defined as "substantial", if reported as "quite a bit" or "very much". RESULTS: Global health status and physical and role functioning show a highly significant decline during treatment (p<=0.001), before returning to near the baseline levels three months after end of treatment. Compared to the reference population, the global health status and emotional and role functioning remain impaired. The most frequently reported substantial PRS during active treatment are: fatigue (78%), diarrhea (68%), urinary frequency (60%) and nausea (54%); these recover to some degree three months after end of treatment. However, fatigue remains increased (50%) and an onset of hot flashes (44%), sexual worries (38%) and limb edema (22%) is observed. CONCLUSIONS: Several impairments in HR-QoL and PRS were found during definitive radio(chemo)therapy with IGABT, with different patterns of progress over time and signs of recovery three months thereafter, although some aspects of functional HR-QoL remain impaired. These findings support a comprehensive patients' counseling on what to expect and how to organize professional, social and family life and plan additional support during this period. 


PMID- 25462203
TI  - A cost-effectiveness analysis of a chemoresponse assay for treatment of patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer.
AB  - OBJECTIVE: Clinical validation of a chemoresponse assay was recently published, demonstrating a significant increase in overall survival in recurrent ovarian cancer patients treated with therapies to which their tumor was sensitive in the assay. The current study investigates the cost effectiveness of using the assay at the time of ovarian cancer recurrence from the payer's perspective. METHODS: Using a Markov state transition model, patient characteristics and survival data from the recent clinical study, the cumulative costs over the study horizon (71 months) for both the baseline (no assay) and intervention (assay consistent, hypothetical) cohorts were evaluated. RESULTS: The assay consistent cohort had an incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $6206 per life year saved (LYS), as compared to the baseline cohort. Cost-effectiveness was further demonstrated in platinum-sensitive and platinum-resistant populations treated with assay-sensitive therapies, with ICERs of $2773 per LYS and $2736 per LYS, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: The use of a chemoresponse assay to inform treatment decisions in recurrent ovarian cancer patients has the potential to be cost-effective in both platinum-sensitive and platinum-resistant patients. 


PMID- 25462204
TI  - Brown algae phlorotannins enhance the tumoricidal effect of cisplatin and ameliorate cisplatin nephrotoxicity.
AB  - OBJECTIVE: The clinical application of cisplatin is limited due to its drug resistance and side effects. We investigated the effect of a phlorotannin-rich extract from the edible brown alga Ecklonia cava (PREC) and its major phlorotannin (dieckol) on cisplatin responsiveness and side effects. METHODS: The A2780 and SKOV3 ovarian cancer cell lines and the SKOV3-bearing mouse model were used. The MTT assay was applied to assess cell viability, and the annexin V assay was employed for apoptosis analysis. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and protein expression were assessed by H2DCFDA staining and Western blotting, respectively. RESULTS: We found that PREC enhanced the tumor growth-inhibitory effect of cisplatin and diminished cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity and weight loss in SKOV3-bearing mice. PREC augmented cisplatin-induced apoptosis by activating caspases in SKOV3 and A2780 ovarian cancer cells. In addition, a combination of PREC and cisplatin-induced ovarian cancer cell apoptosis by downregulating the Akt and NFkappaB pathways. We further demonstrated that PREC increased intracellular ROS and that antioxidants significantly attenuated Akt-NFkappaB activation and apoptosis in ovarian cancer cells. In contrast, PREC inhibited cisplatin-induced ROS production and cell death in normal HEK293 kidney cells. Dieckol, a major compound in PREC, significantly enhanced the inhibition of tumor growth by cisplatin with less weight loss and kidney damage in a mouse model. CONCLUSION: These data suggest that brown algae phlorotannins may improve the efficacy of platinum drugs for ovarian cancer by enhancing cancer cell apoptosis via the ROS/Akt/NFkappaB pathway and reduce nephrotoxicity by protecting against normal kidney cell damage. 


PMID- 25462205
TI  - Phase II study of gemcitabine and vinorelbine as second- or third-line therapy in patients with primary refractory or platinum-resistant recurrent ovarian and primary peritoneal cancer by the Korean Cancer Study Group (KCSG)_KCSG GY10-10.
AB  - OBJECTIVE: The main aim of this study was to evaluate the antitumor activity and safety of vinorelbine and gemcitabine combination chemotherapy in patients with primary refractory or recurrent platinum-resistant epithelial ovarian and primary peritoneal cancers. METHODS: Patients with platinum-resistant or primary refractory disease were eligible. Patients were allowed one prior chemotherapy for the treatment of platinum-resistant or refractory disease. Vinorelbine 25mg/m(2), followed by gemcitabine 1000mg/m(2), was administered intravenously on days 1 and 8 every 3weeks. Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.0 and cancer antigen 125 test (CA-125 criteria) were adopted to classify responses. RESULTS: 44 patients received the median of 4 (range, 1-24) treatments with fifteen (34.1%) receiving six or more cycles. The overall objective response rate was 22.7%. One patient (2.3%) had complete while 9 patients (20.4%) had partial responses with median duration of response of 5.9months. 17 patients (38.6%) had stable disease for a median of 3.3months. Median progression-free survival (PFS) was 3.4months and overall survival (OS) was 14.5months. Four (9.1%) patients were not assessable. Neutropenia was the most frequently encountered toxicity, with grade 3 or 4 observed in 22 patients (50.0%). Fifteen patients (34.1%) needed immediate dose reduction. No treatment related death was reported. CONCLUSIONS: The combination chemotherapy with gemcitabine and vinorelbine achieved the primary end point of our clinical trial in management of platinum resistant recurrent ovarian cancer. However, further sophisticated dosing and scheduling of combination chemotherapy are needed because of a significant proportion of dose reduction. 


PMID- 25462206
TI  - The trend towards minimally invasive surgery (MIS) for endometrial cancer: an ACS-NSQIP evaluation of surgical outcomes.
AB  - OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to evaluate the surgical trend towards increased MIS in the management of endometrial cancer in regard to improvements in patient outcomes. METHODS: Using the American College of Surgeons-National Surgical Quality Improvement Project's database, patients who underwent hysterectomy for endometrial cancer from 2006-2010 were identified and categorized into exploratory laparotomy (XLAP) or MIS. Comparative analyses were performed and stratified by year of surgery to evaluate demographics, surgical outcomes, and 30-day surgical morbidity. RESULTS: A total of 2076 patients (1269 XLAP and 807 MIS) underwent hysterectomy for endometrial cancer between 2006 and 2010. Longer operative times were seen in MIS compared to XLAP (192 vs. 148 min; p<0.001) as well as significant increase in mean hospital stay in the XLAP group of 3.8 days compared to 1.6 days in MIS (p<0.0001). When controlling for preoperative comorbidities, significant increases in postoperative complications were observed in XLAP compared to MIS group (total 396 vs. 91; p<0.0001). MIS increased from 16% in 2006 to 48% in 2010, which correlated to decreases in complications and hospital stays. Each 10% increase in MIS would save $2.8 million and 41 postoperative complications. If used exclusively, MIS would save 6434 hospital days and 416 complications. CONCLUSIONS: Despite increases in operative times, MIS for the treatment of endometrial cancer significantly reduces perioperative complications and hospital stay. Considering the improvements in patient outcomes and the potential savings to the health care system, MIS should be the preferred route for the surgical treatment of this disease when feasible. 


PMID- 25462207
TI  - Application of therapeutic harp sounds for quality of life among hospitalized patients.
AB  - CONTEXT: Hospitalized patients experience symptoms including pain and anxiety that may negatively affect their well-being and overall quality of life (QOL), even when medical interventions are deemed successful. OBJECTIVES: The objective of the study was to assess the efficacy of prescriptive live therapeutic harp sounds on patient symptoms and QOL. METHODS: The study was a two-period, two-treatment arm crossover, randomized clinical trial. Individuals were randomized to harp music and standard care for the first 24 hours of the hospital stay, followed by 24 hours of only standard care, or vice versa. The harp intervention was 30-40 minutes of prescriptive live therapeutic harp sounds in the form of solo harp pieces and improvisations. Patients recorded well-being and symptom scores on linear analogue scales. Entry criteria included at least 18 years and a score of 3 or below on a 1-5 linear analogue scale indicating compromised overall QOL. RESULTS: Ninety-two eligible patients participated in the clinical trial. All the QOL variables had significantly higher percentages of patients with improvements during the harp treatment than during standard care. Five symptoms--fatigue, anxiety, sadness, relaxation, and pain--were significantly improved following therapeutic harp treatment. Approximately 30% to 50% of patients showed a significant increase in the QOL measures after harp treatment. CONCLUSION: There is evidence of strong positive effects on the QOL of hospitalized patients who received therapeutic harp sound treatment along with standard care. 


PMID- 25462209
TI  - Perceptions of complementary medicine integration in supportive cancer care of Arabs and Jews in Israel: a cross-cultural study.
AB  - CONTEXT: There is a dearth of studies on how cultural background influences patients' attitudes and choices regarding complementary and traditional medicine (CTM) integration. OBJECTIVES: To explore Arab and Jewish patients' perspectives regarding CTM use and its possible integration within conventional cancer care. METHODS: This was a cross-cultural study. We developed a 27-item questionnaire that evaluates patients' perceptions regarding CTM integration in supportive cancer care. The questionnaire was administered to a convenience sample of patients receiving cancer care in community and hospital oncology centers. RESULTS: Of the 770 respondents (response rate 88%), 324 defined their religion as Muslim, Christian, or Druze (henceforth, regarded as Arabs) and 446 were Jews. Respondents in the two groups differed significantly in terms of age, gender, marital status, number of children, education, religiosity, and prevalence of cancer types (excluding breast cancer). Although Arab respondents reported less use of CTM for cancer-related outcomes (39.6% vs. 52.1%; P = 0.001), they expressed greater support than Jewish respondents for optional CTM consultation if provided within conventional oncology care (P < 0.0001). Respondents in both groups stated that their primary expectation from the oncologist concerning CTM was to participate in formulating a CTM treatment plan to be provided within the oncology department. Compared with Arab respondents, Jews expected CTM consultations to focus on improving daily functioning and coping, reducing chemotherapy side effects, and providing spiritual support. CONCLUSION: Although quality of life-related expectations are more pronounced among Jewish respondents, both groups share the expectation from their health care providers to be actively involved in construction of a tailored integrative CTM treatment plan. 


PMID- 25462210
TI  - Double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial of octreotide in malignant bowel obstruction.
AB  - CONTEXT: Does octreotide reduce vomiting in cancer-associated bowel obstruction? OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the net effect of adding octreotide or placebo to standardized therapies on the number of days free of vomiting for populations presenting with vomiting and inoperable bowel obstruction secondary to cancer or its treatment. METHODS: Twelve services enrolled people with advanced cancer presenting with vomiting secondary to bowel obstruction where surgery or anti-cancer therapies were not indicated immediately. In a double-blind study, participants were randomized to placebo or octreotide (600 MUg/24 hours by infusion). Both arms received standardized supportive therapy (infusion of ranitidine [200 mg/24 hours], dexamethasone [8 mg/24 hours], and parenteral hydration [10-20 mL/kg/24 hours]). The primary outcome was patient-reported days free of vomiting at 72 hours. RESULTS: In a study that recruited to the numbers identified in its power calculation, 87 participants provided data at 72 hours (45, octreotide arm). Seventeen people (octreotide) and 14 (placebo) were free of vomiting for 72 hours (P = 0.67). Mean days free of vomiting were 1.87 (SD 1.10; octreotide) and 1.69 (SD 1.15; placebo; P = 0.47). An adjusted multivariate regression of the incidence of vomiting over the study showed a reduced number of episodes of vomiting in the octreotide group (incidence rate ratio = 0.40; 95% CI: 0.19-0.86; P = 0.019); however, people in the octreotide arm were 2.02 times more likely to be administered hyoscine butylbromide (P = 0.004), potentially reflecting increased colicky pain. CONCLUSION: Although there was no reduction in the number of days free of vomiting, the multivariate analysis suggests that further study of somatostatin analogues in this setting is warranted. 


PMID- 25462211
TI  - Is resveratrol a potential substitute for leuprolide acetate in experimental endometriosis?
AB  - OBJECTIVE: Resveratrol, a phytoalexin polyphenol, has anti-angiogenic, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory properties. We aimed to compare the anti-inflammatory and anti-angiogenic effects of resveratrol and leuprolide acetate (LA) in an experimental endometriosis model. STUDY DESIGN: A prospective experimental study was conducted in a University Surgical Research Center. Thirty-three non-pregnant female Sprague-Dawley rats, in which experimental model of endometriosis were surgically induced were randomly divided into four groups. Group 1 was administered 30 mg/kg resveratrol i.m. for 14 days, group 2 was given 1mg/kg s.c. single dose LA, group 3 was administered both resveratrol and LA, and group 4 had no medication. After two weeks medication rats were sacrificed and size, histopathology and immunreactivity to matrix metalloproteinase (mmp)2, mmp9, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) of the endometriotic implants were evaluated. Plasma and peritoneal fluid levels of interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) were analyzed. RESULTS: The endometriotic implant volumes, histopathological grade and immunreactivity to mmp2, mmp9 and VEGF were significantly reduced (p<0.001), and plasma and peritoneal fluid levels of IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-alpha were significantly decreased in group 1 and group 2 in comparison to group 3 and group 4 (p < 0.001). CONCLUSION: Resveratrol alone is a potential agent for the treatment of endometriosis and may be an alternative to LA. In contrast, the combination of LA and resveratrol decreased the anti-inflammatory and anti-angiogenic effects of each agent. Since resveratrol is widely used as an alternative therapy for a variety of conditions, it can undermine the effectiveness of LA. Therefore, caution should be exercised when used in combination with other agents. 


PMID- 25462212
TI  - Is montelukast effective in regression of endometrial implants in an experimentally induced endometriosis model in rats?
AB  - OBJECTIVE: Montelukast, a selective antagonist of Type 1 cysteinyl leukotriene receptors (CysLT1Rs), antagonizes the proinflammatory and proasthmatic activities of CysLT1Rs. We investigated the effect of montelukast on a surgically induced endometriosis rat model. STUDY DESIGN: Thirty-two sexually mature, cycling, female Wistar-Albino rats, in which endometriotic implants were surgically induced, were randomly divided into three groups. Group I [Montelukast (M), 10 rats)] was given 1.6 mg/kg/day of oral montelukast sodium. Group II [Leuprolide acetate (L), 11 rats] was given 1 mg/kg single dose of s.c.leuprolide acetate. Group III [Control (C), 11 rats] received saline solution through an orogastric tube and served as controls. After a 3-weeks medication, the rats were sacrificed to investigate the endometriotic implants for size and morphological and histological characteristics, including immunoreactivity of MMP-2 and VEGF. RESULTS: The mean area of implants decreased from 48.2 +/- 24.7 to 29.3 +/- 15.8mm(2) in Group I (M) (P = 0.008) and from 62 +/- 32.1 to 39.9 +/- 18.1mm(2) in Group II (L) (P=0.003). In Group III (C), the mean area increased from 41.1 +/- 31.1 to 60.4 +/- 37.1mm(2) (P = 0.025). Histopathological analysis showed statistically significant lower scores in rats treated with montelukast compared to leuprolide and controls. MMP H scores were not different between the groups in both epithelial and stromal MMP-2 immunostaining. VEGF H scores were statistically lower in Group 1 (M) in epithelial VEGF immunostaining when compared to Group II (L) and Group III (C) (P=0.006). CONCLUSION(S): Montelukast may effectively cause a significant decrease in the area of endometriotic implants. 


PMID- 25462214
TI  - The impact of gynecologic oncology training in the management of cancer patients: is it really necessary? A prospective cohort study.
AB  - OBJECTIVES: To assess patients' perceptions of physician, nurse, and care organization quality of care and services received during hospitalization with or without a sub-specialized setting in gynaecological oncology. STUDY DESIGN: Consecutive patients affected by gynaecologic cancer, referred to the Division of Gynaecology of University Campus Bio-Medico of Rome to underwent to surgery (surgical ward) or to chemotherapy (medical ward) from January 2010 to April 2014, were enrolled. Eligible subjects were divided into two groups: Group A: standard unit care, consisting of doctors and nurses without a specific training and Group B: Expert unit care, consisting of doctors and nurses with specific training in gynecologic oncology. Patients were asked to complete the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Cancer Module (QLQ-C30) and the Patient Satisfaction Questionnaire (IN-PATSAT32). RESULTS: The sample (n = 150) is organized into two groups: 78 patients (Group A) and 72 patients (Group B). Analysing the results of IN-PATSAT32, comparing Group A versus Group B, we find statistically significant difference considering doctors' information provision (items 7-9) (p = 0.0470), nurses' technical skills (items 12-14) (p = 0.0369) and nurses' information provision (items 18-20) (p = 0.0089) and general satisfaction (item 32) (p = 0.0214). CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the potential benefits specialty training for doctors and nurses that work in an oncologic ward (surgical or medical). In fact, the necessity for a separate sub-specialty in gynaecological oncology and a distinct training programme may be the key to achieve the higher satisfaction in this setting of patients. 


PMID- 25462213
TI  - Medical management of unwanted pregnancy in France: modalities and outcomes. The aMaYa study.
AB  - OBJECTIVES: Medical termination of pregnancy (MToP) has become more frequently used, and specific recommendations have been issued by the French Authorities regarding protocols. The aim of this prospective, multicenter, longitudinal observational study was to record actual practices and to describe efficacy and safety of drugs used for MToP in real-life conditions in France. STUDY DESIGN: The study was performed between 2011 and 2012 in a representative sample of 47 centers dealing with abortions. Pregnant women with less than 14 weeks of amenorrhea, requesting MToP, for whom a drug regimen including mifepristone was decided, were recruited and information was recorded from the center and through the patient's auto questionnaire. The main efficacy parameter was complete abortion without surgical procedure. RESULTS: A total of 1585 women (mean age: 27.6 +/- 6.8 years) were included by 47 centers. At inclusion time, when women were given mifepristone, the mean term of pregnancy was 46.5 +/- 7.8 days of amenorrhea (DA), the term was >49 DA for 28.3% of patients, and >63 DA for 1.6%. The most frequently used protocol was the one recommended by the French authorities (mifepristone 600 mg-misoprostol 400 MUg oral), used in 35.4% of patients, but other protocols were used (mifepristone 600 mg or 200mg in association with misoprostol 2 * 400 MUg per os, for respectively 23.4% and 13.5%). Gemeprost prostaglandin was used by 1.4% of patients only. Of the patients, 10.3% did not return to the center and were considered as lost to follow up. For the 1421 patients for whom information was available, the successful abortion rate was 94.4%. In the remaining 5.6% there were no ongoing pregnancies, but their condition required a secondary surgical procedure. Over 90% of the 1421 patients with follow-up were satisfied with the procedure. Safety was good, with only 16 cases of major bleeding(1%), and one of endometritis (0.1%) reported as serious adverse events. CONCLUSION: Our study showed, in real-life settings, a high rate of success for MToP. Whatever the protocol used, this approach is effective, well tolerated, and satisfactory for the majority of patients. 


PMID- 25462215
TI  - Cost-effectiveness analysis in the treatment of heavy menstrual bleeding in Spain.
AB  - OBJECTIVE: To compare the effectiveness and costs associated with first-line medical treatments for chronic heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB) in Spain. STUDY DESIGN: A cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted comparing the levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system (LNG-IUS) with the estradiol valerate/dienogest multiphase oral contraceptive (E2V/DNG), combined oral contraceptives (COC) and progestins (PROG). Study patients were fertile women diagnosed with HMB who initially wished to remain fertile. A Markov model based on reported clinical data and the opinion of a panel of experts was used. The time horizon of the analysis was 5 years. The analysis was conducted from the perspective of the Spanish National Health System (NHS), discounting both costs (? 2013) and future effects at an annual rate of 3%. One-way sensitivity analyses and probabilistic sensitivity analysis were performed to test the robustness of the results. RESULTS: In the analysis at 5 years, the LNG-IUS was associated with a gain of 0.67, 2.22, and 3.53 symptoms free months (SFM) compared with E2V/DNG, COC and PROG, respectively. LNG-IUS contributed more quality-adjusted life months (QALM) than the other treatment alternatives (+1.74 vs. E2V/DNG, +3.33 vs. COC +3.53 vs. PROG). First-line LNG-IUS treatment resulted in savings of ? 583, ? 988, and ? 1891 vs. E2V/DNG, COC and PROG, respectively. These cost benefits, coupled with the greater clinical benefits in terms of SFM and QALM, show that LNG-IUS is the dominant option (less costly and more effective). CONCLUSION: LNG-IUS is the medical treatment of choice and cost-saving option for the control of HMB in Spain. 


PMID- 25462216
TI  - Chaos in balance: non-linear measures of postural control predict individual variations in visual illusions of motion.
AB  - Visually-induced illusions of self-motion (vection) can be compelling for some people, but they are subject to large individual variations in strength. Do these variations depend, at least in part, on the extent to which people rely on vision to maintain their postural stability? We investigated by comparing physical posture measures to subjective vection ratings. Using a Bertec balance plate in a brightly-lit room, we measured 13 participants' excursions of the centre of foot pressure (CoP) over a 60-second period with eyes open and with eyes closed during quiet stance. Subsequently, we collected vection strength ratings for large optic flow displays while seated, using both verbal ratings and online throttle measures. We also collected measures of postural sway (changes in anterior-posterior CoP) in response to the same visual motion stimuli while standing on the plate. The magnitude of standing sway in response to expanding optic flow (in comparison to blank fixation periods) was predictive of both verbal and throttle measures for seated vection. In addition, the ratio between eyes-open and eyes-closed CoP excursions during quiet stance (using the area of postural sway) significantly predicted seated vection for both measures. Interestingly, these relationships were weaker for contracting optic flow displays, though these produced both stronger vection and more sway. Next we used a non-linear analysis (recurrence quantification analysis, RQA) of the fluctuations in anterior-posterior position during quiet stance (both with eyes closed and eyes open); this was a much stronger predictor of seated vection for both expanding and contracting stimuli. Given the complex multisensory integration involved in postural control, our study adds to the growing evidence that non-linear measures drawn from complexity theory may provide a more informative measure of postural sway than the conventional linear measures.  


PMID- 25462217
TI  - Blunted cardiovascular reactivity in dysphoria during reward and punishment anticipation.
AB  - Hyposensitivity to reward in depression and dysphoria has been found in behavioral and neuroimaging studies. For punishment responsiveness, some studies showed hyposensitivity to punishment while other studies demonstrated hypersensitivity. Only few studies have addressed the motivational question as to whether depressed individuals mobilize less effort in anticipation of a positive or a negative consequence. The present study aimed at investigating reward and punishment responsiveness in subclinical depression from an effort mobilization perspective. Working on a recognition memory task, one third of the participants could earn small amounts of money, one third could lose small amounts of money, and one third could neither earn nor lose money. Effort mobilization was operationalized as participants' cardiovascular reactivity during task performance. As expected, reactivity of cardiac pre-ejection period and heart rate was higher in both incentive conditions compared to the neutral condition for nondysphorics, while it was blunted across conditions for dysphorics. Moreover, the present study found that dysphorics show an altered behavioral response to punishment. These findings thus show that dysphorics present a reduced motivation to obtain a reward or to avoid a punishment in terms of reduced effort-related cardiac reactivity.  


PMID- 25462218
TI  - Topographic distribution of EEG alpha attractor correlation dimension values in wake and drowsy states in humans.
AB  - Organization of resting state cortical networks is of fundamental importance for the phenomenon of awareness, which is altered in the first part of hypnagogic period (Hori stages 1-4). Our aim was to investigate the change in brain topography pattern of EEG alpha attractor correlation dimension (CD) in the period of transition from Hori stage 1 to 4. EEG of ten healthy adult individuals was recorded in the wake and drowsy states, using a 14 channel average reference montage, from which 91 bipolar channels were derived and filtered in the wider alpha (6-14 Hz) range. Sixty 1s long epochs of each state and individual were subjected to CD calculation according to the Grassberger-Procaccia method. For such a collection of signals, two embedding dimensions, d={5, 10}, and 22 time delays tau=2-23 samples were explored. Optimal values were d=10 and tau=18, where both saturation and second zero crossing of the autocorrelation function occurred. Bipolar channel CD underwent a significant decrease during the transition and showed a positive linear correlation with electrode distance, stronger in the wake individuals. Topographic distribution of bipolar channels with above median CD changed from longitudinal anterior-posterior pattern (awake) to a more diagonal pattern, with localization in posterior regions (drowsiness). Our data are in line with the literature reporting functional segregation of neuronal assemblies in anterior and posterior regions during this transition. Our results should contribute to understanding of complex reorganization of the cortical part of alpha generators during the wake/drowsy transition. 


PMID- 25462220
TI  - Antimycobacterial activity of natural products and synthetic agents: pyrrolodiquinolines and vermelhotin as anti-tubercular leads against clinical multidrug resistant isolates of Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
AB  - Various classes of natural products and synthetic compounds were tested against reference strains and clinical multidrug resistant isolates of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Vermelhotin (19), a natural tetramic acid from fungi, was the most active toward clinical MDR TB isolates (MIC 1.5-12.5 MUg/mL). Synthetic compounds (i.e. benzoxazocines, coumarins, chromenes, and pyrrolodiquinoline derivatives) were prepared by green chemistry approaches. Under microwave irradiation, a one-pot synthesis of pyrrolodiquinoline 85 was achieved by homocoupling of 1-methylquinolinium iodide; the structure of 85 was confirmed by single-crystal X-ray analysis. Compound 85 and its derivative 86 exhibited potent anti-tubercular activity (MIC 0.3-6.2 MUg/mL) against clinical MDR TB isolates, and they displayed weak cytotoxicity toward normal cell line. The scaffold of 85 and 86 is potential for antimycobacterial activity.  


PMID- 25462219
TI  - Learning models of PTSD: Theoretical accounts and psychobiological evidence.
AB  - Learning abnormalities have long been centrally implicated in posttraumatic psychopathology. Indeed, of all anxiety disorders, PTSD may be most clearly attributable to discrete, aversive learning events. In PTSD, such learning is acquired during the traumatic encounter and is expressed as both conditioned fear to stimuli associated with the event and more general over-reactivity-or failure to adapt-to intense, novel, or fear-related stimuli. The relatively straightforward link between PTSD and these basic, evolutionarily old, learning processes of conditioning, sensitization, and habituation affords models of PTSD comprised of fundamental, experimentally tractable mechanisms of learning that have been well characterized across a variety of mammalian species including humans. Though such learning mechanisms have featured prominently in explanatory models of psychological maladjustment to trauma for at least 90years, much of the empirical testing of these models has occurred only in the past two decades. The current review delineates the variety of theories forming this longstanding tradition of learning-based models of PTSD, details empirical evidence for such models, attempts an integrative account of results from this literature, and specifies limitations of, and future directions for, studies testing learning models of PTSD.  


PMID- 25462221
TI  - Synthesis and evaluation of in vitro antimycobacterial activity of novel 1H-benzo[d]imidazole derivatives and analogues.
AB  - A series of novel 1H-benzo[d]imidazole derivatives and analogues (1-25) have been synthesized and evaluated for tuberculostatic activity. Benzimidazoles substituted at the C-2 position with cyclohexylethyl, cyclohexylpropyl and phenylpropyl moiety or 4-phenylpyridine system were obtained. Compounds 3, 4, 6 and 7 bearing halogen atoms or methyl groups at the benzimidazole system and cyclohexylethyl substituent at the C-2 position showed an excellent tuberculostatic activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Mycobacterium bovis strains with MIC values ranging from 0.75 to 1.5 MUg/mL. More importantly, derivatives 4 (5-Bromo-2-(2-cyclohexylethyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazole) and 6 (2-(2-cyclohexylethyl)-5,6-dimethyl-1H-benzo[d]imidazole) appeared selective for M. tuberculosis and M. bovis as compared with non-malignant eukaryotic cells (LLC-PK1 pig kidney epithelial cell line). These compounds may thus represent a novel, selective class of anti-tubercular agents.  


PMID- 25462222
TI  - Design, synthesis and structure--activity relationship (SAR) studies of imidazo[4,5-b]pyridine derived purine isosteres and their potential as cytotoxic agents.
AB  - Drug resistance to chemotherapeutic agents paved the way to develop novel synthetic molecules which are active on MDR cancer cell lines. Regio-isomeric imidazo[4,5-b]pyridine analogues were synthesized and evaluated for their cytotoxic activity against a range of cancer cell lines. The structure-activity relationship (SAR) studies of the imidazopyridine analogues are also described. Analogue 6b displayed strong cytotoxicity and good microsomal stability.  


PMID- 25462223
TI  - Further studies on pyrazolo[1',5':1,6]pyrimido[4,5-d]pyridazin-4(3H)-ones as potent and selective human A1 adenosine receptor antagonists.
AB  - A new series of pyrazolo[1',5':1,6]pyrimido[4,5-d]pyridazin-4(3H)-ones was synthesized and tested in radioligand binding assays on human A1, A2A and A3 adenosine receptors. Most of the compounds showed high selectivity of action towards A1 receptor and high affinity with Ki values in the low nanomolar range. The pharmacological profile of the most active molecules towards A1 adenosine receptors was evaluated in cAMP functional assay. Compounds demonstrated their ability to completely counteract the effect of the agonist NECA, thus demonstrating their antagonist profile. Moreover, the most interesting compound, tested in the mouse passive avoidance, exhibited an antiamnesic effect at the doses of 10 and 30 mg/kg.  


PMID- 25462225
TI  - Hairpin oligonucleotides forming G-quadruplexes: new aptamers with anti-HIV activity.
AB  - We describe the facile syntheses of new modified oligonucleotides based on d(TG3AG) that form bimolecular G-quadruplexes and possess a HEG loop as an inversion of polarity site 3'-3' or 5'-5' and aromatic residues conjugated to the 5'-end through phosphodiester bonds. The conjugated hairpin G-quadruplexes exhibited parallel orientation, high thermal stability, elevated resistance in human serum and high or moderate anti-HIV-1 activity with low cytotoxicity. Further, these molecules showed significant binding to HIV envelope glycoproteins gp120, gp41 and HSA, as revealed by SPR assays. As a result, these conjugated hairpins represent the first active anti-HIV-1 bimolecular G-quadruplexes based on the d(TG3AG) sequence.  


PMID- 25462224
TI  - Synthesis, crystal structure and antitumor effect of a novel copper(II) complex bearing zoledronic acid derivative.
AB  - A great majority of Cu(II) complexes currently studied in the anticancer research field exert their antiproliferative activities through ligand exchange. In this work, we present the synthesis and structural characterization of two novel Cu(II) complexes, {[Cu3(ZL)2(H2O)6].6H2O}n (1) (ZL = 1-hydroxy-2-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)ethane-1,1-diyldiphosphonic acid) and [Cu(IPrDP)2].3H2O (2) (IPrDP = 1-hydroxy-3-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)propane-1,1-diyldiphosphonic acid). Due to the insolubility of polymer 1 in common solvents, only the biological activities of complex 2 were investigated. The antitumor activity of complex 2 was evaluated against a panel of human cancer cell lines, including U2OS, A549, HCT116, MDA-MB-231 and HepG2. Complex 2 exhibited comparable cytotoxic effect to cisplatin (CDDP) against the human colon carcinoma cells HCT116, and superior selectivity for inhibiting human hepatocarcinoma cells rather than normal liver cells. The cell cycle distribution analysis indicates that complex 2 inhibits human carcinoma cells by inducing the cell cycle arrest at the G2/M phase, showing a similar mechanism of action to that of CDDP. The binding interaction of complex 2 with calf thymus DNA (CT-DNA) has been explored by UV-vis absorption and circular dichroism (CD), demonstrating complex 2 has a moderate binding affinity for DNA through intercalation.  


PMID- 25462226
TI  - Synthesis, structure, spectral characterization, electrochemistry and evaluation of antibacterial potentiality of a novel oxime-based palladium(II) compound.
AB  - The title monomeric Pd(II) compound, [Pd(L)(Cl)], was synthesized in moderate yield out of the reaction of equimolar proportion of Na2[PdCl4] and 3-[(5-bromo-2-hydroxy-benzylidene)-hydrazono]-butan-2-one oxime (LH) in tetrahydrofuran milieu. LH is a 1:1 Schiff-base condensate of 2,3-butanedionemonoxime monohydrazone and 5-bromosalicylaldehyde. [Pd(L)(Cl)] has been characterized by C, H and N microanalyses, (1)H and (13)C NMR, FAB-MS, FT-IR, Raman spectra, UV-Vis spectra and molar electrical conductivity measurements. [Pd(L)(Cl)] is diamagnetic. Structural elucidation reveals that the palladium center in [Pd(L)(Cl)] is nested in 'N2OCl' coordination environment. The geometry around Pd in [Pd(L)(Cl)] is distorted square-planar. The redox behavior of [Pd(L)(Cl)] in DMF shows a reduction couple, Pd(II)/Pd(I) at -0.836 V versus Ag/AgCl. The in vitro antimicrobial activity of [Pd(L)(Cl)] was screened against both Gram-positive and Gram-negative human pathogenic bacteria. This bioactivity was substantiated with SEM study. [Pd(L)(Cl)] exhibits satisfactory bactericidal as well as bacteriostatic activity.  


PMID- 25462227
TI  - Synthesis, characterization and biological activity of new mixed ligand complexes of Zn(II) naproxen with nitrogen based ligands.
AB  - A series of novel Zn(II) complexes [Zn2(nap)4] (1), [Zn(nap)21,10-phen](2), [Zn(nap)22,9-dmphen] (3), [Zn(nap)2(2-ampy)2] (4), [Zn(nap)2(imid)2] (5), [Zn(nap)2(1,2-dmimid)2] (6) (nap = naproxen, 1,10-phen = 1,10-phenanthroline, 2,9-dmphen = 2,9-dimethyl-1,10-phenanthroline, 2-ampy = 2-aminopyridine, imid = imidazole, 1,2-dmimid = 1,2-dimethyl imidazole) were synthesized and characterized using IR, UV-Vis, (1)H NMR, (13)C{(1)H} NMR spectroscopy. The crystal structure of complex 3 was determined using single-crystal X-ray diffraction. In order to assess the effect of the metal ions on the anti-bacterial activity, complexes 1-6 have been screened in vitro, against (G(+)) bacteria (Staphylococcus aureus and Micrococcus luteus) and (G(-)) bacteria (Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Proteus mirabilis and Escherichia coli) using the agar well diffusion method. Complex 2 was the only complex that showed antibacterial activity against P. aeruginosa, where the complexation of the parent ligand 1,10-phenathroline enhanced significantly the activity. All the complexes showed different activity against the different bacteria, and were compared with activity of the parent ligands. The complexes were tested also for their anti-malarial activity using two methods: a semi-quantitative micro-assay and a previously self-developed quantitative in-vitro method. Both were used to study the efficiency of these complexes in inhibiting the formation of the Malaria pigment. This is considered an important target of many known anti-malarial drugs such as Chloroquine and Amodaquine. Results showed that the efficiency of complex 3 in preventing the formation of beta-hematin was 75%. The efficiency of Amodiaquine as a standard drug was reported to give 92.5.  


PMID- 25462228
TI  - Synthesis of a platinum(II) complex with 2-(4-methoxy-phenyl) imidazo [4,5-f]-[1,10] phenanthrolin and study of its antitumor activity.
AB  - A new platinum(II) complex of [Pt(II)(L) (pn)]Cl.2H2O (1) (pn = 1,3-propanediamine) with 2-(4-methoxy-phenyl)imidazo [4,5-f]-[1,10]phenanthrolin (H-L) was synthesized and characterized. In complex 1, the platinum adopts a four-coordinated square planar geometry. Complex 1 exhibited selective cytotoxicity against NCI-H460, BEL-7402, SK-OV-3, SK-OV-3/DDP and HeLa cell lines with IC50 values in the micromolar range (9.7-35.8 MUM), but low cytotoxicity toward normal human liver HL-7702 cells. Complex 1 caused HeLa cell cycle arrest at S phase and it induced HeLa apoptosis by the activation of caspase-3/9. Various experiments showed that complex 1 preferred to bind with G-quadruplex in c-myc. Taken together, we found that complex 1 exerted its antitumor activity mainly via inhibiting telomerase by interaction with c-myc quadruplex and activation of caspase-3/9.  


PMID- 25462229
TI  - Novel chalcone derivatives as hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1 inhibitor: synthesis, anti-invasive and anti-angiogenic properties.
AB  - A novel series of chalcone derivatives were synthesized and their biological activities against HIF-1 were evaluated. Among these compounds, 5d exhibited clearly inhibitory effects on HIF-1 by downregulating the expression of HIF-1alpha under hypoxic conditions. Meanwhile, it also significantly suppressed VEGF-induced migration and invasion of Hep3B and HUVEC cells in nontoxic concentrations. Additionally, tube formation assay demonstrated its anti-angiogenesis activity. Moreover, the in vivo study indicated that compound 5d could retard tumor growth of Hep3B xenograft models and reduced CD31 and MMP-2 expression in tumor tissues. Finally, in acute intravenous toxicity, 5d was well tolerated and was found to be non-toxic up to 200 mg/kg in Swiss mice. These findings support the further investigation on the anti-invasive and anti-angiogenic potential of this class of compounds as HIF-1 inhibitor.  


PMID- 25462230
TI  - In silico design of novel 2H-chromen-2-one derivatives as potent and selective MAO-B inhibitors.
AB  - Inhibition data on rat monoamine oxidase B isoform of a large number of 7-metahalobenzyloxy-2H-chromen-2-one derivatives (67 compounds) carrying at position 4 a variety of substituents differing in steric, electrostatic, lipophilic and H-bonding properties, were modeled by Gaussian field-based 3D-QSAR and docking simulations carried out on rat MAO-B homology model. The computational study combining two different approaches provided easily interpretable binding modes, highlighting the dominant role of the steric effects at position 4, and guided the design of new, potent and selective MAO-B inhibitors. The 4-hydroxyethyl-, 4-chloroethyl-, 4-carboxamidoethyl-coumarin derivatives 70, 71, and 76, respectively, were endowed with high MAO-B inhibitory potency (pIC50 = 8.13, 7.89 and 7.82, respectively) and good selectivity over MAO-A (pIC50 = 5.33, 3% inhibition at 10 MUM, and pIC50 = 5.37, respectively). New compounds with moderate to low MAO-B inhibitory activity were also designed and prepared to challenge the predictive power of our docking-based 3D-QSAR model. The good match between predicted and experimental pIC50 values for all the newly designed compounds confirmed the robustness of our model (r(2) = 0.856, RMSE = 0.421) and its transparent rationale in unveiling the main molecular determinants for high potency towards MAO-B.  


PMID- 25462231
TI  - Discovery of new 7-substituted-4-imidazolylmethyl coumarins and 4'-substituted-2-imidazolyl acetophenones open analogues as potent and selective inhibitors of steroid-11beta-hydroxylase.
AB  - Diseases triggered by an abnormally high level of cortisol (hypercortisolism), such as the Cushing's and metabolic syndromes, could be successfully tackled by inhibitors of CYP11B1, a steroidal cytochrome P450 enzyme that catalyzes the last hydroxylation step of the cortisol biosynthesis. Structural optimization of 7-(benzyloxy)-4-(1H-imidazol-1-ylmethyl)-2H-chromen-2-one 2, a selective aromatase inhibitor, afforded the 4-(1H-imidazol-1-ylmethyl)-7-{[3-(trifluoromethoxy)benzyl]oxy}-2H-chromen-2-one 7, with improved inhibitory potency at human CYP11B1 (IC50 = 5 nM) and an enhanced selectivity over human CYP11B2 (SIB = 25) compared to lead compound 2 (IC50 = 72 nM, SIB = 4.0) and metyrapone (IC50 = 15 nM, SIB = 4.8), a non-selective drug used in the therapy of the Cushing's syndrome. Structure-activity relationship studies allowed the design and optimization of a novel series of potent and selective compounds, that can be regarded as open analogues of 2H-chromen-2-one derivatives. Compound 23, 2-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)-1-(4-{[3(trifluoromethoxy)benzyl]oxy}phenyl) ethanone, was the most interesting inhibitor of the series displaying a high potency at CYP11B1 (IC50 = 15 nM), increased selectivities over CYP11B2 (SIB = 33), CYP19 (SIB = 390) and CYP17 (5% inhibition at 2.5 MUM concentration).  


PMID- 25462232
TI  - Studies on indolizines. Evaluation of their biological properties as microtubule-interacting agents and as melanoma targeting compounds.
AB  - With the aim of investigating new analogues of phenstatin with an indolizin-3-yl unit, in particular as the B-ring, three new series of compounds (6-8, 9-34 and 54) were synthesized and tested for interactions with tubulin polymerization and evaluated for cytotoxicity on an NCI-60 human cancer cell lines panel. The replacement of the 3'-hydroxy-4'-methoxyphenyl B-ring of phenstatin with substituted indolizine unit results in the conservation of both antitubulin and cytotoxic effect. Indolizines 9 and 17 were the most effective in the present study and showed the highest antiproliferative effect on melanoma cell lines MDA-MB-435 (GI50 = 30 nM) and could serve as new lead compounds for the development of anti-cancer therapeutics.  


PMID- 25462233
TI  - Investigation of podophyllotoxin esters as potential anticancer agents: synthesis, biological studies and tubulin inhibition properties.
AB  - A series of fifteen podophyllotoxin derived esters have been synthesized and their anti-cancer properties have been evaluated against A549 (lung cancer), DU-145 (prostate cancer), HepG2 (liver cancer), HeLa (cervical cancer) and MCF-7 (breast cancer) cell lines. Five compounds of the series 8a, 8g-h, 8m and 8o showed IC50 values in the range of 0.71-10.94 MUM. Among compounds, 8g and 8h showed significant cytotoxicity towards all the types of cancer studied. Cell cycle analysis revealed that the compounds 8a, 8m and 8o inhibit proliferation by cell cycle arrest. Also Hoechst-positive nucleus indicating apoptosis of these cells was observed in presence of 8g-h. Further studies revealed that these compounds inhibit tubulin polymerization and leads to the inactivation of AKT/PKB that are known to play an important role in the proliferation of cancer cells.  


PMID- 25462234
TI  - Rational design, synthesis and anti-proliferative evaluation of novel 1,4-benzoxazine-[1,2,3]triazole hybrids.
AB  - A series of novel 1,2,3-triazole-1,4-benzoxazine hybrids 5a-n were efficiently synthesized employing click chemistry approach and evaluated for anti-proliferative activity against four cancer cell lines such as HeLa (cervical), MIAPACA (pancreatic), MDA-MB-231 (breast) and IMR32 (neuroblastoma). Compounds 5n and 5g exhibited promising anti-proliferative activity with GI50 values ranging from 1.2 to 2.5 MUM and 0.1-1.1 MUM respectively against all cell lines, like HeLa, MDA-MB-231, MIAPACA and IMR32, while compound 5l showed significant activity against MDA-MB-231 and IMR32 with GI50 values ranging from 1.1 and 1.4 MUM. This is the first report on the synthesis and in vitro anti-proliferative evaluation of 1,2,3-triazole-1,4-benzoxazine hybrids.  


PMID- 25462235
TI  - Comparative (Q)SAR analysis of benzodiazepine derivatives with different biological activity.
AB  - 211 compounds containing a benzodiazepine moiety (BZD) and belonging to 4 groups of different biological activity (H - inhibitors of reverse transcriptase of HIV-I virus, A - antiarrhythmic agents, G - ligands of benzodiazepine receptor in GABAergic system and C - cholecystokinin receptor antagonists) were subjected to structure-activity relationship (SAR) analysis. SAR investigations of all 211 BZD were based on Discriminant Function Analysis (DFA) of physicochemical data connected with BBB (blood-brain barrier) permeability of studied compounds. DFA was performed with STATISTICA 10.0 software by the stepwise method and resulted in 3 discriminant functions whose quality was assessed by Wilk's lambda parameter. Calculated discriminant functions (roots) were applied to draw the scatter diagram of canonical values that showed all 211 cases divided into 4 groups of different biological activity. The method was successfully validated with a set of 38 BZD derivatives expected to belong to groups H, A, G and C. The reliability of the obtained model was confirmed with a cross-validation test. Classification functions presented in this study may be used as a practical tool for predicting new BZD drugs activity.  


PMID- 25462237
TI  - Thiazolidone derivatives as inhibitors of chikungunya virus.
AB  - A series of arylalkylidene derivatives of 1,3-thiazolidin-4-one (1-20) were synthesized and tested for their antiviral activity against chikungunya virus (LR2006_OPY1) in Vero cell culture by CPE reduction assay. Five compounds (7-9, 16 and 19) were identified to have anti-ChikV activity at lower micro molar concentration. The compounds 7, 8, 9, 16 and 19 inhibited the virus at 0.42, 4.2, 3.6, 40.1 and 6.8 MUM concentrations respectively. Molecular docking simulation has been carried out using the available X-ray crystal structure of the ChikV nsp2 protease, in order to elucidate the possible mechanism of action. Interaction of ligands with ChikV nsp2 protease (PDB Code: 3TRK) suggested the possible mechanism of protease inhibition to act as potent anti-ChikV agents.  


PMID- 25462236
TI  - Synthesis and structure--activity relationship of new cytotoxic agents targeting human glutathione-S-transferases.
AB  - The 6-((7-nitrobenzo[c][1,2,5]oxadiazol-4-yl)thio)hexan-1-ol (NBDHEX, 1), a "suicide inhibitor" of the glutathione-S-transferase GSTP1-1, showed pro-apoptotic properties in tumor cells, but in vivo studies were limited by poor bioavailability and high affinity towards GSTM2-2, expressed in many non-cancerous tissues. Here we describe the synthesis and biological characterization of new 1 analogs (2-40), in which the hydroxyhexyl portion at the C4-sulfur atom has been replaced with phenyl-containing moieties as well as substituted alkyl chains. Some of the new compounds displayed 10-100 times increased water-solubility (8, 11, 17, 26-28, 34, 35), and most of them showed higher GSTP1-1 selectivity (2-20, 23-26, 31-33, 35) than 1. The presence of a phenyl ring with polar substituents is in general associated, with some exceptions (23, 24) to low cytotoxicity in osteosarcoma U-2OS cells. Differently, some alkyl derivatives possess cytotoxicity comparable (26, 34, 35) or higher (30, 32) than 1. Among the novel compounds, selected ones (26, 27, 34, and 35) deserve further investigation for their anticancer potential.  


PMID- 25462238
TI  - Identification and nanoentrapment of polyphenolic phytocomplex from Fraxinus angustifolia: in vitro and in vivo wound healing potential.
AB  - The aim of the present study was to elucidate the polyphenolic composition of Fraxinus angustifolia leaf and bark extracts, and to evaluate their efficacy in wound healing. Quercetin, catechin, rutin and tannic acid were identified as the main components of the extracts. In order to improve their skin bioavailability, the polyphenolic phytocomplexes were incorporated in different nanovesicles, namely ethosomes and phospholipid vesicles containing Transcutol((r)) P (Trc) or ethylene glycol (EG). The latter had never been used before as a component of phospholipid vesicles, and it was found to play a key role in improving extract efficacy in wound healing. Results of cryogenic transmission electron microscopy (cryo-TEM), Photon Correlation Spectroscopy (PCS) and Small-Angle X-ray Scattering (SAXS) showed that ethosomes and EG-PEVs were small, monodispersed, unilamellar vesicles, while Trc-PEVs were larger, less homogeneously dispersed and multilamellar, with a large bilayer thickness. Free extracts did not show relevant ability to protect in vitro human keratinocytes from H2O2 damages, while when entrapped in nanovesicles, they significantly inhibited H2O2 stress damages, probably related to a higher level of cell uptake. On the other hand, in vivo results showed that the highest antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects were provided by the phytocomplexes in EG-PEVs, which favoured wound healing. Moreover, non-entrapped F. angustifolia extracts showed a marginal effect, comparable to that of free quercetin dispersion (control). In conclusion, our results depict that these extracts may find potential applications in biomedicine.  


PMID- 25462240
TI  - Carboline- and phenothiazine-derivated heterocycles as potent SIGMA-1 protein ligands.
AB  - Sigma 1 receptors are associated with neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders. These receptors, via their chaperoning functions that counteract endoplasmic reticulum stress and block neurodegeneration, may serve as a target for a new generation of antidepressants or neuroprotective agents. The involvement of these receptors has also been observed in neuropathic pain and cancer. Only a few ligands, such as Igmesine and Anavex 2-73, have been involved in clinical trials. Thus the development of sigma 1 ligands is of interest to a new generation of drugs. Previous work in our lab underlined the potency of benzannulated bicyclic compounds as interesting ligands. Herein the work was extended to a series of novel tricyclic compounds. Carboline- and phenothiazine-derivated compounds were designed and synthesized. In vitro competition binding assays for sigma 1 and 2 receptors showed that most of them have high affinity for sigma 1 receptor (Ki = 2.5-18 nM), and selectivity toward sigma 2 receptor, without cytotoxic effects on SY5Y cells.  


PMID- 25462239
TI  - Malonate-based inhibitors of mammalian serine racemase: kinetic characterization and structure-based computational study.
AB  - Overactivation of NMDA receptors has been implicated in various neuropathological conditions, including brain ischaemia, neurodegenerative disorders and epilepsy. Production of d-serine, an NMDA receptor co-agonist, from l-serine is catalyzed in vivo by the pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (PLP)-dependent enzyme serine racemase. Specific inhibition of this enzyme has been proposed as a promising strategy for treatment of neurological conditions caused by NMDA receptor dysfunction. Here we present the synthesis and activity analysis of a series of malonate-based inhibitors of mouse serine racemase (mSR). The compounds possessed IC50 values ranging from 40 +/- 11 mM for 2,2-bis(hydroxymethyl)malonate down to 57 +/- 1 MUM for 2,2-dichloromalonate, the most effective competitive mSR inhibitor known to date. The structure-activity relationship of the whole series in the human orthologue (hSR) was interpreted using Glide docking, WaterMap analysis of hydration and quantum mechanical calculations based on the X-ray structure of the hSR/malonate complex. Docking into the hSR active site with three thermodynamically favourable water molecules was able to discern qualitatively between good and weak inhibitors. Further improvement in ranking was obtained using advanced PM6-D3H4X/COSMO semiempirical quantum mechanics-based scoring which distinguished between the compounds with IC50 better/worse than 2 mM. We have thus not only found a new potent hSR inhibitor but also worked out a computer-assisted protocol to rationalize the binding affinity which will thus aid in search for more effective SR inhibitors. Novel, potent hSR inhibitors may represent interesting research tools as well as drug candidates for treatment of diseases associated with NMDA receptor overactivation.  


PMID- 25462241
TI  - A comprehensive review in current developments of benzothiazole-based molecules in medicinal chemistry.
AB  - Benzothiazole (BTA) and its derivatives are the most important heterocyclic compounds, which are common and integral feature of a variety of natural products and pharmaceutical agents. BTA shows a variety of pharmacological properties, and its analogs offer a high degree of structural diversity that has proven useful for the search of new therapeutic agents. The broad spectrum of pharmacological activity in individual BTA derivative indicates that, this series of compounds is of an undoubted interest. The related research and developments in BTA-based medicinal chemistry have become a rapidly developing and increasingly active topic. Particularly, numerous BTA-based compounds as clinical drugs have been extensively used in practice to treat various types of diseases with high therapeutic potency. This work systematically gives a comprehensive review in current developments of BTA-based compounds in the whole range of medicinal chemistry as anticancer, antibacterial, antifungal, antiinflammatory, analgesic, anti-HIV, antioxidant, anticonvulsant, antitubercular, antidiabetic, antileishmanial, antihistaminic, antimalarial and other medicinal agents. It is believed that, this review article is helpful for new thoughts in the quest for rational designs of more active and less toxic BTA-based drugs, as well as more effective diagnostic agents and pathologic probes.  


PMID- 25462242
TI  - Benzodioxane-benzamides as new bacterial cell division inhibitors.
AB  - A SAR study was performed on 3-substituted 2,6-difluorobenzamides, known inhibitors of the essential bacterial cell division protein FtsZ, through a series of modifications first of 2,6-difluoro-3-nonyloxybenzamide and then of its 3-pyridothiazolylmethoxy analogue PC190723. The study led to the identification of chiral 2,6-difluorobenzamides bearing 1,4-benzodioxane-2-methyl residue at the 3-position as potent antistaphylococcal compounds.  


PMID- 25462243
TI  - Synthesis, molecular structure, biological properties and molecular docking studies on Mn(II), Co(II) and Zn(II) complexes containing bipyridine-azide ligands.
AB  - Metal complexes of the type Mn(bpy)2(N3)2 (1), Co(bpy)2(N3)2.3H2O (2) and Zn2(bpy)2(N3)4 (3) (Where bpy = 2,2-bipyridine) have been synthesized and characterized by elemental analysis and spectral (FT-IR, UV-vis) studies. The structure of complexes (1-3) have been determined by single crystal X-ray diffraction studies and the configuration of ligand-coordinated metal(II) ion was well described as distorted octahedral coordination geometry for Mn(II), Co(II) and distorted square pyramidal geometry for Zn(II) complexes. DNA binding interaction of these complexes (1-3) were investigated by UV-vis absorption, fluorescence circular dichroism spectral and molecular docking studies. The intrinsic binding constants Kb of complexes 1, 2 and 3 with CT-DNA obtained from UV-vis absorption studies were 8.37 * 10(4), 2.23 * 10(5) and 5.52 * 10(4) M(-1) respectively. The results indicated that the three complexes are able to bind to DNA with different binding affinity, in the order 2 > 1 > 3. Complexes (1-3) exhibit a good binding propensity to bovine serum albumin (BSA) proteins having relatively high binding constant values. Gel electrophoresis assay demonstrated the ability of the complexes 1-3 promote the cleavage ability of the pBR322 plasmid DNA in the presence of the reducing agent 3-mercaptopropionic acid (MPA) but with different cleavage mechanisms: the complex 3 cleaves DNA via hydrolytic pathway (T4 DNA ligase assay), while the DNA cleavage by complexes 1 and 2 follows oxidative pathway. The chemical nuclease activity follows the order: 2 > 1 > 3. The effects of various activators were also investigated and the nuclease activity efficacy followed the order MPA > GSH > H2O2 > Asc. The cytotoxicity studies of complexes 1-3 were tested in vitro on breast cancer cell line (MCF-7) and they found to be active.  


PMID- 25462244
TI  - Novel analogs of antitumor agent calixarene 0118: Synthesis, cytotoxicity, click labeling with 2-[(18)F]fluoroethylazide, and in vivo evaluation.
AB  - Calixarene 0118 is a potent anti-angiogenic agent that effectively inhibited tumor growth in preclinical studies, and is currently being evaluated in a phase I clinical trial. We have designed two close mimetics of calixarene 0118 containing a terminal alkynyl-functional group, and developed an optimized semi-automated procedure for radiolabeling with 2-[(18)F]fluoroethylazide using click chemistry. Following semi-preparative HPLC purification and formulation, the lower-rim modified analog [(18)F]6 and the equatorially labeled [(18)F]13 were obtained in >97% radiochemical purity and overall decay-corrected isolated radiochemical yields of 18.7 +/- 2.7% (n = 4) and 10.2 +/- 5.0% (n = 4), respectively, in a total synthesis time of about 2 h. Preliminary in vivo studies in nude mice bearing human tumor xenografts revealed highest accumulation of both tracers in the liver, followed by spleen, kidney, lung and bone, with no substantial uptake in the tumor. Still, these first-in-class radiotracers are a valuable tool for pharmacokinetic profiling and improvement of calixarene-based anti-angiogenic therapeutics in the future, as similar radiolabeling strategies may be applied to other compounds in the calixarene series. The cold reference compounds of the radiotracers were characterized in terms of cytotoxicity and anti-proliferative effects on HUVEC cells and on MA148 human ovarian carcinoma cells, along with the respective precursors, a small series of 0118 analogs modified with short-chain linear alkyl substituents, and a PEG3-spaced calixarene dimer. While all of the new analogs proved at least equipotent to parent 0118, some of them inhibited HUVEC and MA148 cell growth almost 4- and 10-fold more effectively, rendering these analogs promising candidates for further evaluation in anti-angiogenic cancer therapy.  


PMID- 25462245
TI  - New tetracyclic tacrine analogs containing pyrano[2,3-c]pyrazole: efficient synthesis, biological assessment and docking simulation study.
AB  - A new series of tacrine-based acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors 7a-l were designed by replacing the benzene ring of tacrine with aryl-dihydropyrano[2,3-c]pyrazole. The poly-functionalized hybrid molecules 7a-l were efficiently synthesized through multi-component reaction and subsequent Friedlander reaction between the obtained pyrano[2,3-c]pyrazoles and cyclohexanone. Most of target compounds showed potent and selective anti-AChE activity at sub-micromolar range. The most potent compound 7h bearing a 3,4-dimethoxyphenyl group was more active than reference drug tacrine. The representative compound 7h could significantly protect neurons against oxidative stress as potent as quercetin at low concentrations. The docking study of compound 7h with AChE enzyme revealed that the (R)-enantiomer binds preferably to CAS while the (S)-enantiomer prone to be a PAS binder.  


PMID- 25462246
TI  - Synthesis and evaluation of new indole-based chalcones as potential antiinflammatory agents.
AB  - In the present work, new indole-based chalcone derivatives were obtained via the reaction of 5-substituted-1H-indole-3-carboxaldehydes/1-methylindole-3-carboxaldehyde with appropriate acetophenones. The synthesized compounds were investigated for their in vitro COX-1 and COX-2 inhibitory activity. The most effective COX inhibitors were also evaluated for their in vivo antiinflammatory and antioxidant activities in LPS induced sepsis model. Furthermore, the CCK-8 assay was carried out to determine cytotoxic effects of all compounds against NIH/3T3 mouse embryonic fibroblast cells. 3-(5-Bromo-1H-indol-3-yl)-1-(4-cyanophenyl)prop-2-en-1-one (6) can be considered as a non-selective COX inhibitor (COX-1 IC50 = 8.1 +/- 0.2 MUg/mL, COX-2 IC50 = 9.5 +/- 0.8 MUg/mL), whereas 3-(5-methoxy-1H-indol-3-yl)-1-(4-(methylsulfonyl)phenyl)prop-2-en-1-one (1) inhibited only COX-1 (IC50 = 8.6 +/- 0.1 MUg/mL). According to in vivo studies, these compounds also displayed antiinflammatory and antioxidant activities.  


PMID- 25462247
TI  - In vitro and in vivo characterization of a benzofuran derivative, a potential anticancer agent, as a novel Aurora B kinase inhibitor.
AB  - Aurora B is a serine/threonine kinase that has a key role in mitosis and is overexpressed in cancer cells. Aberrations in Aurora B are highly correlated with tumorigenesis and cancer development, so many studies have focused on the development of Aurora B kinase inhibitors. Based on one of our previous high-throughput screening studies, we identified lead compound S6, a small-molecule benzofuran derivative that binds Aurora B and inhibits its kinase activity in vitro. S6 also displayed high selectivity for Aurora B inhibition. The cytotoxicity of S6 was assessed against a panel of 21 cancer cell lines. The cervical cancer cell line HeLa, liver cancer cell line HepG2 and colon cancer cell line SW620 were the most sensitive to S6 treatment. We found that S6 decreased the proliferation and colony formation of these three cell lines and elevated their percentages of cells in the G2/M phase of the cell cycle. S6 also inhibited phospho-histone H3 on Ser 10, a natural biomarker of endogenous Aurora B activity. The growth suppression of liver cancer QGY-7401 xenograft tumors was observed in nude mice after S6 administration, and this effect was accompanied by the in vivo inhibition of phospho-histone H3 (Ser 10). Taken together, we conclude that targeting Aurora B with compound S6 may be a novel strategy for cancer treatment, and additional studies are warranted. 


PMID- 25462248
TI  - 1-Arylsulfonyl-5-(N-hydroxyacrylamide)tetrahydroquinolines as potent histone deacetylase inhibitors suppressing the growth of prostate cancer cells.
AB  - This study describes the development of a series of 1-arylsulfonyl-6-(N-hydroxyacrylamide)tetrahydroquinolines, potent histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors which are cytotoxic to PC-3 cells. (E)-N-hydroxy-3-(1-(4-methoxyphenylsulfonyl)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-6-yl)acrylamide (11) exhibits marked anti-HDAC and antiproliferative activity, and is slightly more effective than N(1)-hydroxy-N(8)-phenyloctanediamide (SAHA, Vorinostat, 1). In a xenograft tumor model, 11, at doses of 100 or 200 mg/kg orally, suppresses the growth of PC-3 cells and leads to tumor growth inhibition of 38.8% and 57.9%, respectively. Compound 11 is a lead compound for further development of potential prostate cancer inhibitors.  


PMID- 25462249
TI  - (99m)Tc-labeled-2-arylbenzoxazole derivatives as potential Abeta imaging probes for single-photon emission computed tomography.
AB  - Four neutral (99m)Tc/Re-labeled 2-arylbenzoxazole derivatives conjugated to bis (aminoethanethiol) (BAT) chelating ligand via a short propoxy spacer were synthesized and evaluated. In vitro binding assay showed that they displayed binding affinities to Abeta1-42 aggregates (Ki = 15.86-393.18 nM). In vitro autoradiography studies further confirmed the high and specific binding of [(99m)Tc]20 to beta-amyloid plaques on brain sections of transgenic mice. Biodistribution study of [(99m)Tc]17-20 in normal mice displayed moderate initial brain uptake (0.96-1.55%ID/g at 2 min), and fast washed out from the brain (0.14-0.40%ID/g at 60 min), especially for [(99m)Tc]20 with a brain2min/brain60min ratio of 8.86. Taken together, these preliminary data suggested that [(99m)Tc]20 may be a potential imaging probe for detecting amyloid plaques in the brain.  


PMID- 25462250
TI  - Inhibition of pseudolysin and thermolysin by hydroxamate-based MMP inhibitors.
AB  - In the present study, we have investigated the inhibition of thermolysin and pseudolysin by a series of compounds previously identified as matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) inhibitors using experimental binding studies and theoretical calculations. The experimental studies showed that some of the compounds were able to inhibit thermolysin and pseudolysin in the low MUM range. The studies revealed that, in general, the compounds bound in the order MMPs > pseudolysin > thermolysin, and the strongest pseudolysin and thermolysin binders were compounds 8-12. Furthermore, compounds 8 and 9 were unique in that they bound much stronger to the two bacterial enzymes than to the MMPs. The docking calculations suggested that the phenyl group of the strongest binders (compounds 8 and 9) occupy the S2(')-subpocket, while a second ring system occupy the S1-subpocket in both thermolysin and pseudolysin. When the compounds possess two ring systems, the largest and most electron rich ring system seems to occupy the S1-subpocket.  


PMID- 25462251
TI  - Design, synthesis, and biological evaluation of 2-arylethenylquinoline derivatives as multifunctional agents for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
AB  - A series of new 2-arylethenylquinoline derivatives (4a1-4a12, 4b1-4b8, 4c1-4c4, 4d1-4d3 and 4e1-4e9) were designed, synthesized, and evaluated as potential multifunctional agents for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In vitro studies showed that these synthetic compounds inhibited self-induced Abeta1-42 aggregation effectively ranged from 23.6% to 83.9% at the concentration of 20 MUM, and acted as potential antioxidants and biometal chelators. Their structure-activity relationships were obtained and discussed. In particular, compound 4b1, the most active compound, displayed strong inhibitory activity with an IC50 value of 9.7 MUM for self-induced Abeta1-42 aggregation, good antioxidative activity with a value of 3.9-fold of Trolox, potent inhibitory activity for cholinesterase with IC50 values of 0.2 MUM and 64.1 MUM against butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE), respectively. Besides, 4b1 was also capable of disassembling the self-induced Abeta1-42 aggregation fibrils with a ratio of 59.8% at 20 MUM concentration, and had a good metal chelating activity. Taken together, these results suggest that compound 4b1 might be a promising lead compound for AD treatment.  


PMID- 25462252
TI  - Design, synthesis and anti-leishmanial activity of novel symmetrical bispyridinium cyclophanes.
AB  - Nine novel symmetrical bispyridinium cyclophanes have been synthesized. They are rigid derivatives with an upper spacer which joins the two exocyclic amino groups, and a lower spacer joining the two positively charged nitrogen atoms. At least one of the two spacers is an aliphatic linker, such as an alkane or oxyalkane fragment. The activity of these compounds has been evaluated against promastigotes and intracellular amastigotes of Leishmania donovani and Leishmania major. All the cyclophanes are more active against L. major, with EC50 in intracellular amastigotes of between 1 and 17 MUM, they exhibit very low toxicity against mammalian cells THP-1 and in some cases they present a higher selectivity index than the reference anti-leishmanial drugs amphotericin B and miltefosine. Compound 9 [2,8-Diaza-1,9(4,1)-dipyridinacyclotetradecaphan-1(1),9(1)-bis(ilium) dibromide] is the most active one among cyclophane derivatives against intracellular amastigotes of L. donovani (EC50 7.6 +/- 0.2 MUM) while L. major amastigotes are 6-fold more susceptible to the compound (EC50 1.26 +/- 0.3 MUM). Compound 9 produces depolarization of the mitochondrial membrane and a decrease in the ATP levels that leads to death of the parasites. The anti-leishmanial activity of this macrocyclic salts is independent of the Leishmania enzymes ethanolamine kinase and choline/ethanolamine kinase.  


PMID- 25462253
TI  - Design, synthesis and in vitro evaluation of novel dehydroabietic acid derivatives containing a dipeptide moiety as potential anticancer agents.
AB  - A series of novel dehydroabietic acid (DHA) chiral dipeptide derivatives were designed and synthesized as potent antitumor agents. The inhibitory activities of these compounds against NCI-H460 (lung), HeLa (epithelial cervical) and MGC-803 (gastric) human cancer cell lines were estimated by MTT assay in vitro. The antitumor activities screening indicated that many compounds showed moderate to high levels of antitumor activities against these three cancer cell lines and most of these compounds displayed more potent inhibitory activities compared with commercial anticancer drug 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). The induction of apoptosis and affects on the cell cycle distribution with compound 8k were investigated by acridine orange/ethidium bromide staining, Hoechst 33258 staining, JC-1 mitochondrial membrane potential staining, TUNEL assay, flow cytometry and the activities of caspase-3 and -9 assay in Hela cells, which exhibited that the compound could induce cell apoptosis in Hela cells. In addition, further investigation showed that apoptosis were associated with loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, enhancement of mitochondrial cytochrome c release and intracellular ROS production, elevation of Bax expression, down-regulation of Bcl-2, and the activation of caspase-9 and -3.  


PMID- 25462254
TI  - A small-molecule cell-based screen led to the identification of biphenylimidazoazines with highly potent and broad-spectrum anti-apicomplexan activity.
AB  - An in vitro screening of the anti-apicomplexan activity of 51 compounds, stemming from our chemical library and from chemical synthesis, was performed. As a study model, we used Toxoplasma gondii (T. gondii), expressing beta-galactosidase for the colorimetric assessment of drug activity on parasites cultivated in vitro. This approach allowed the validation of a new series of molecules with a biphenylimidazoazine scaffold as inhibitors of T. gondii growth in vitro. Hence, 8 molecules significantly inhibited intracellular replication of T. gondii in vitro, with EC50 < 1 MUM, while being non-toxic for human fibroblasts at these concentrations. Most attractive candidates were then selected for further biological investigations on other apicomplexan parasites (Neospora caninum, Besnoitia besnoiti, Eimeria tenella and Plasmodium falciparum). Finally, two compounds were able to inhibit growth of four different apicomplexans with EC50 in the submicromolar to nanomolar range, for each parasite. These data, including the broad anti-parasite spectrum of these inhibitors, define a new generation of potential anti-parasite compounds of wide interest, including for veterinary application. Studies realized on E. tenella suggest that these molecules act during the intracellular development steps of the parasite. Further experiments should be done to identify the molecular target(s) of these compounds.  


PMID- 25462255
TI  - Anthraquinone-chalcone hybrids: synthesis, preliminary antiproliferative evaluation and DNA-interaction studies.
AB  - Novel anthraquinone based chalcone compounds were synthesized starting from 1-acetylanthraquinone in a Claisen-Schmidt reaction and evaluated for their anticancer potential against three human cancer cell lines. Compounds 4a, 4b and 4j showed promising activity in inhibition of HeLa cells with IC50 values ranging from 2.36 to 2.73 MUM and low cytotoxicity against healthy MRC-5 cell lines. The effects that compounds produces on the cell cycle were investigated by flow cytometry. It was found that 4a, 4b and 4j cause the accumulation of cells in the S and G2/M phases in a dose-dependent manner and induce caspase-dependent apoptosis. All of three compounds exhibit calf thymus DNA-binding activity. The determined binding constants by absorption titrations (2.65 * 10(3) M(-1), 1.36 * 10(3) M(-1)and 2.51 * 10(3) M(-1) of 4a/CT-DNA, 4b/CT-DNA and 4j/CT-DNA, respectively) together with fluorescence displacement analysis designate 4a, 4b and 4j as strong minor groove binders, but no cleavage of plasmid DNA was observed. 


PMID- 25462256
TI  - 6-Substituted 9-fluoroquino[3,2-b]benzo[1,4]thiazines display strong antiproliferative and antitumor properties.
AB  - 6-Substituted 9-fluoroquino[3,2-b]benzo[1,4]thiazines - a new type of tetracyclic azaphenothiazines-were obtained from of 6H-9-fluoroquinobenzothiazine by the introduction of appropriate substituents to the thiazine nitrogen atom (alkyl, aminoalkyl, amidoalkyl, sulfonamidoalkyl and nitrogen half-mustard groups). The compounds displayed differential cytotoxic as well as antiproliferative actions against human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) stimulated with phytohemagglutinin A (PHA). In addition, they suppressed lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) production by whole blood human cell cultures. Two compounds (4 and 15, with the propargyl and methanesulfonamidopropyl groups) were selected for further experiments because of lack of cytotoxicity and strong antiproliferative actions. Compound 4 showed strong suppressive actions on growth of L1210, SW948, A-431 and CX-1 tumor cell lines which were close to those of cisplatin, the reference drug (e.g. GI50 of 2.28 MUg/mL vs. 1.86 MUg/mL for L1210 cells). Further, the compound appeared to be equally effective as cyclosporine A (CsA) in the inhibition of human two-way mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR). The compound did not significantly inhibit interleukin 2 (IL-2)-induced growth of CTLL-2 cell line. In addition, inhibition of prostaglandin (PG) synthesis by indomethacin or block of PG receptors did not interfere with the inhibitory effect of the compound on PHA-induced cell proliferation. Therefore, it is likely that the compound acts by inhibiting cell cycle as proposed for other phenothiazines. Further studies are required for the elucidation of the mechanism of action and therapeutic utility of these compounds in more advanced in vivo models. 


PMID- 25462257
TI  - A review on recent developments of indole-containing antiviral agents.
AB  - Indole represents one of the most important privileged scaffolds in drug discovery. Indole derivatives have the unique property of mimicking the structure of peptides and to bind reversibly to enzymes, which provide tremendous opportunities to discover novel drugs with different modes of action. There are seven indole-containing commercial drugs in the Top-200 Best Selling Drugs by US Retail Sales in 2012. There are also an amazing number of approved indole-containing drugs in the market as well as compounds currently going through different clinical phases or registration statuses. This review focused on the recent development of indole derivatives as antiviral agents with the following objectives: 1) To present one of the most comprehensive listings of indole antiviral agents, drugs on market or compounds in clinical trials; 2) To focus on recent developments of indole compounds (including natural products) and their antiviral activities, summarize the structure property, hoping to inspire new and even more creative approaches; 3) To offer perspectives on how indole scaffolds as a privileged structure might be exploited in the future.  


PMID- 25462258
TI  - Design, synthesis and biological evaluation of biphenylamide derivatives as Hsp90 C-terminal inhibitors.
AB  - Modulation of Hsp90 C-terminal function represents a promising therapeutic approach for the treatment of cancer and neurodegenerative diseases. Current drug discovery efforts toward Hsp90 C-terminal inhibition focus on novobiocin, an antibiotic that was transformed into an Hsp90 inhibitor. Based on structural information obtained during the development of novobiocin derivatives and molecular docking studies, scaffolds containing a biphenyl moiety in lieu of the coumarin ring present in novobiocin were identified as new Hsp90 C-terminal inhibitors. Structure-activity relationship studies produced new derivatives that inhibit the proliferation of breast cancer cell lines at nanomolar concentrations, which corresponded directly with Hsp90 inhibition. 


PMID- 25462259
TI  - Neuroprotective effects of a brain permeant 6-aminoquinoxaline derivative in cell culture conditions that model the loss of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson disease.
AB  - Parkinson disease is a neurodegenerative disorder of aging, characterized by disabling motor symptoms resulting from the loss of midbrain dopaminergic neurons and the decrease of dopamine in the striatum. Current therapies are directed at treating the symptoms but there is presently no cure for the disease. In order to discover neuroprotective compounds with a therapeutical potential, our research team has established original and highly regioselective methods for the synthesis of 2,3-disubstituted 6-aminoquinoxalines. To evaluate the neuroprotective activity of these molecules, we used midbrain cultures and various experimental conditions that promote dopaminergic cell loss. Among a series of 11 molecules, only compound MPAQ (2-methyl-3-phenyl-6-aminoquinoxaline) afforded substantial protection in a paradigm where dopaminergic neurons die spontaneously and progressively as they mature. Prediction of blood-brain barrier permeation by Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationship studies (QSARs) suggested that MPAQ was able to reach the brain parenchyma with sufficient efficacy. HPLC-MS/MS quantification in brain homogenates and MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry imaging on brain tissue sections performed in MPAQ-treated mice allowed us to confirm this prediction and to demonstrate, by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry imaging, that MPAQ was localized in areas containing vulnerable neurons and/or their terminals. Of interest, MPAQ also rescued dopaminergic neurons, which (i) acquired dependency on the trophic peptide GDNF for their survival or (ii) underwent oxidative stress-mediated insults mediated by catalytically active iron. In summary, MPAQ possesses an interesting pharmacological profile as it penetrates the brain parenchyma and counteracts mechanisms possibly contributive to dopaminergic cell death in Parkinson disease.  


PMID- 25462260
TI  - Synthesis of oleanolic acid dimers linked at C-28 and evaluation of anti-tumor activity.
AB  - Five dimeric oleanolic acids linked at C-28 by 1,6-hexanediamine, or built around the carbon chains of varying lengths between two carboxyl groups were synthesized, to investigate the effect of internal spacer length and species upon the stereochemical features and anti-tumor activity of the resultant bis-oleanolic acids. The IC50 values of these dimeric compounds for cytotoxicity evaluation in vitro against Hep-G2, A549, BGC-823, MCF-7 and PC-3 tumor cell lines, were mainly under 10.0 MUM. This result was much better than the inhibition of proliferation against tested tumor cell lines of the monomer oleanolic acid and the commercial anticancer drug 5-fluorouracil. The cytotoxicity selectivity detection revealed that dimer 11c exhibited low cytotoxicity towards normal human liver cell HL-7702. A combination of fluorescence staining observation and flow cytometric analysis indicated that 11c could induce Hep-G2 cell apoptosis. Molecular mechanism studies suggested that 11c induced apoptosis is mediated through the intrinsic apoptotic pathway with changes in mitochondrial membrane potential by finally activating effector caspase-3/9 to trigger cell apoptosis. Further studies revealed that 11c caused cell cycle arrest at G1 phase in Hep-G2 cells. Taken together, these results suggest that 11c may be a potential candidate for further cancer research. 


PMID- 25462261
TI  - 4-Aminoquinoline-pyrimidine hybrids: synthesis, antimalarial activity, heme binding and docking studies.
AB  - A series of novel 4-aminoquinoline-pyrimidine hybrids has been synthesized and evaluated for their antimalarial activity. Several compounds showed promising in vitro antimalarial activity against both CQ-sensitive and CQ-resistant strains with high selectivity index. All the compounds were found to be non-toxic to the mammalian cell lines. Selected compound 7g exhibited significant suppression of parasitemia in the in vivo assay. The heme binding studies were conducted to determine the mode of action of these hybrid molecules. These compounds form a stable 1:1 complex with hematin suggesting that heme may be one of the possible targets of these hybrids. The interaction of these conjugate hybrids was also investigated by the molecular docking studies in the binding site of PfDHFR. The pharmacokinetic property analysis of best active compounds was also studied using ADMET prediction. 


PMID- 25462262
TI  - Development and evaluation of ST-1829 based on 5-benzylidene-2-phenylthiazolones as promising agent for anti-leukotriene therapy.
AB  - Different inflammatory diseases and allergic reactions are mediated by leukotrienes, which arise from the oxygenation of arachidonic acid catalyzed by 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO). One promising approach for an effective anti-leukotriene therapy is the inhibition of this key enzyme. This study presents the synthesis and development of a potent and direct 5-LO inhibitor based on the well characterized 5-benzylidene-2-phenylthiazolone C06, whose further pharmacological investigation was precluded due to its low solubility. Through optimization of C06, evaluation of structure-activity relationships including profound assessment of the thiazolone core and consideration of the solubility, the 5-benzyl-2-phenyl-4-hydroxythiazoles represented by 46 (ST-1829, 5-(4-chlorobenzyl)-2-p-tolylthiazol-4-ol) were developed. Compound 46 showed an improved 5-LO inhibitory activity in cell-based (IC50 values 0.14 MUM) and cell-free assays (IC50 values 0.03 MUM) as well as a prominent enhanced solubility. Furthermore, it kept its promising inhibitory potency in the presence of blood serum, excluding excessive binding to serum proteins. These facts combined with the non-cytotoxic profile mark a major step towards an effective anti-inflammatory therapy. 


PMID- 25462263
TI  - Phenyl acetate derivatives, fluorine-substituted on the phenyl group, as rapid recovery hypnotic agents with reflex depression.
AB  - We report the synthesis of novel, potentially hypnotic fluorine-substituted phenyl acetate derivatives. We describe the structure-activity relationship that led us to the promising derivative: ethyl 2-(4-(2-(diethylamino)-2-oxoethoxy)-5-ethoxy-2-fluorophenyl) acetate (55). The unique pharmacological features of compound 55 are its relatively high affinity for the GABAA receptor, together with a unique affinity for the NMDA receptor, different to propanidid and AZD3043. In animal models, compound 55 showed stronger hypnotic potency and longer duration of LORR than propanidid and AZD3043, but also maintained a rapid recovery time to walking and behavioral recovery. In particular, compound 55 displayed reflex depression during infusion.  


PMID- 25462264
TI  - Design, synthesis and biological evaluation of novel peptides with anti-cancer and drug resistance-reversing activities.
AB  - Chemotherapy is an important approach used to treat cancer, but severe side effects and emerging drug resistance restrict its clinical application. In this present study, we found that peptide B1 showed specific cytotoxicity to tumor cells. Moreover, a helix-wheel plot predicted that the Ser14 in this peptide is located at the interface of the hydrophobic and hydrophilic faces of B1. Subsequently, we wondered whether replacing Ser14 would alter the activity of B1, and so a series of B1 analogs were synthesized where the Ser14 was replaced by amino acids with distinct physicochemical properties. Amongst them, peptides where Ser14 was substituted by a nonpolar and basic amino acid had improved anti-cancer activity. Further investigations revealed that B1 and its analogs were capable of penetrating into cytoplasm and triggering cytochrome C release from mitochondria, which ultimately resulted in apoptosis. Meanwhile, B1 and its analogs inhibited the migration of cancer cells. The peptides also acted against drug-resistant cells and had drug resistance-reversing effects. In conclusion, these peptides might be promising candidates for oncotherapy.  


PMID- 25462265
TI  - Design, synthesis and in vitro antitumor activity of novel N-substituted-4-phenyl/benzylphthalazin-1-ones.
AB  - A novel series of N-substituted-4-phenylphthalazin-1-ones 14a-g bearing different anilines at the N-2 of phthalazin-1-one scaffold via acetyl-flexible linker was designed and synthesized for the development of potential anticancer agents. Compounds 19a-g were synthesized by insertion of methylene (CH2) bridge at C4-position of 14a-g to provide a flexibility for the phenyl group. The newly synthesized compounds 14a-g and 19a-g were evaluated for their anti-proliferative activity against three human tumor cell lines HepG2 hepatocellular carcinoma, HT-29 colon cancer and MCF-7 breast cancer. In particular, HepG2 and HT-29 cancer cell lines were more susceptible to the synthesized derivatives. Compound 19d (IC50 = 1.2 +/- 0.09 MUM) was found to be the most potent derivative against HepG2 as it was 2.9 times more active than doxorubicin (IC50 = 3.45 +/- 0.54) and sorafenib (IC50 = 3.5 +/- 1.04 MUM). Compounds 14e, 14g, 19d and 19g with IC50 = (3.29 +/- 0.45), (3.50 +/- 0.846), (1.20 +/- 0.09) and (3.52 +/- 0.70) MUM, respectively, were found to be active candidates against HepG2 cancer cells. Compounds 14e, 14g, 19d and 19g were able to induce apoptosis in HepG2, this was assured by; the significant increase in the percentage of annexin V-FITC-positive apoptotic cells (UR + LR), the down-regulation of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 and the up-regulation of the pro-apoptotic protein Bax, in addition to boosting caspase-3 levels. Moreover, cytotoxicity evaluation of the newly synthesized compounds in HT-29 revealed that compounds 14e, 14f, 19e and 19f (IC50 = 3.05 +/- 0.78, 4.02 +/- 1.18, 3.68 +/- 0.79 and 2.98 +/- 0.47 MUM, respectively) were more potent than doxorubicin (IC50 = 7.70 +/- 1.78 MUM). 


PMID- 25462266
TI  - Purinergic P2X receptors: structural models and analysis of ligand-target interaction.
AB  - The purinergic P2X receptors are ligand-gated cation channels activated by the endogenous ligand ATP. They assemble as homo- or heterotrimers from seven cloned subtypes (P2X1-7) and all trimer subunits present a common topology consisting in intracellular N- and C- termini, two transmembrane domains and a large extracellular domain. These membrane proteins are present in virtually all mammalian tissues and regulate a large variety of responses in physio- and pathological conditions. The development of ligands that selectively activate or block specific P2X receptor subtypes hence represents a promising strategy to obtain novel pharmacological tools for the treatment of pain, cancer, inflammation, and neurological, cardiovascular, and endocrine diseases. The publication of the crystal structures of zebrafish P2X4 receptor in inactive and ATP-bound active forms provided structural data for the analysis of the receptor structure, the interpretation of mutagenesis data, and the depiction of ligand binding and receptor activation mechanism. In addition, the availability of ATP-competitive ligands presenting selectivity for P2X receptor subtypes supports the design of new potent and selective ligands with possibly improved pharmacokinetic profiles, with the final aim to obtain new drugs. This study describes molecular modelling studies performed to develop structural models of the human and rat P2X receptors in inactive and active states. These models allowed to analyse the role of some non-conserved residues at ATP binding site and to study the receptor interaction with some non-specific or subtype selective agonists and antagonists.  


PMID- 25462267
TI  - Design, synthesis and biological evaluation of bis-aryl ureas and amides based on 2-amino-3-purinylpyridine scaffold as DFG-out B-Raf kinase inhibitors.
AB  - By combining the scaffolds of UI-125 and Sorafenib, a series of bis-aryl ureas and amides based on 2-amino-3-purinylpyridine moiety were designed and synthesized as novel DFG-out B-Raf(V600E) inhibitors. Among them, 20c-e, 20g and 21h displayed potent antiproliferative activities against melanoma A375 (B-Raf(V600E)) cell lines with IC50 values of 3.190, 2.276, 1.856, 1.632 MUM and 1.839 MUM, respectively, comparable with the positive control Vemurafenib (IC50 = 3.32 MUM). Selected compounds were tested for the ERK inhibition in human melanoma A375 (B-Raf(V600E)) and SK-MEL-2 (B-Raf(WT)) cell lines by Western blot. The results revealed that our compounds inhibited the proliferation of melanoma A375 cells (B-Raf(V600E)) through ERK pathway, without paradoxical activation of ERK in melanoma SK-MEL-2 cells (B-Raf(WT)). Eventually, 20g and 21h were selected to confirm their inhibitory effects on tumor growth in A375 xenograft models in mice. Compound 20g exhibited equivalent antitumor efficacy in vivo (T/C = 44.37%), compared to Sorafenib (T/C = 37.35%), by 23-day repetitive administration of a single dose of 50 mg/kg without significant body weight loss. 


PMID- 25462268
TI  - 1-Phenylsulfinyl-3-(pyridin-3-yl)naphthalen-2-ols: a new class of potent and selective aldosterone synthase inhibitors.
AB  - 1-Phenylsulfinyl-3-(pyridin-3-yl)naphthalen-2-ols and related compounds were synthesized and evaluated for inhibition of aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2), a potential target for cardiovascular diseases associated with elevated plasma aldosterone levels like congestive heart failure and myocardial fibrosis. Introduction of substituents at the phenylsulfinyl moiety and changes of the substitution pattern at the naphthalene core were examined. Potent compounds were further examined for selectivity versus other important steroidogenic CYP enzymes, i.e. the highly homologous 11beta-hydroxylase (CYP11B1), CYP17 and CYP19. The most potent compound (IC50 = 14 nM) discovered was the meta-trifluoromethoxy derivative 11, which also exhibited excellent selectivity toward CYP11B1 (SF = 415), and showed no inhibition of CYP17 and CYP19. 


PMID- 25462269
TI  - From mixed sigma-2 receptor/P-glycoprotein targeting agents to selective P-glycoprotein modulators: small structural changes address the mechanism of interaction at the efflux pump.
AB  - Generations of modulators of the efflux pump P-glycoprotein (P-gp) have been produced as tools to counteract the Multidrug Resistance (MDR) phenomenon in tumor therapy, but clinical trials were not successful so far. With the aim of contributing to the development of novel P-gp modulators, we started from recently studied high-affinity sigma-2 (sigma2) receptor ligands that showed also potent interaction with P-gp. For sigma2 receptors high-affinity binding, a basic N-atom is a strict requirement. Therefore, we reduced the basic character of the N-atom present in these ligands, and we obtained potent P-gp modulators with poor or null sigma2 receptor affinity. We also evaluated whether modulation of P-gp by these novel compounds involved consumption of ATP (as P-gp substrates do), as a source of energy to support the efflux. Surprisingly, even small structural changes resulted in opposite behavior, with amide 13 depleting ATP, in contrast to its isomer 18. Two compounds, 15 and 25, emerged for their potent activity at P-gp, and deserve further investigations as tools for P-gp modulation.  


PMID- 25462270
TI  - Synthesis, molecular docking and anti-mycobacterial evaluation of new imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine-2-carboxamide derivatives.
AB  - New anti-tubercular agents, imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine-2-carboxamide derivatives (5a-q) have been designed and synthesized. The structural considerations of the designed molecules were further supported by the docking study with a long-chain enoyl-acyl carrier protein reductase (InhA). The chemical structures of the new compounds were characterized by IR, (1)H NMR, (13)C NMR, HRMS and elemental analysis. In addition, single crystal X-ray diffraction has also been recorded for compound 5f. Compounds were evaluated in vitro against Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Rv, and cytotoxicity against HEK-293T cell line. Amongst the tested compounds 5j, 5l and 5q were emerged as good anti-tubercular agents with low cytotoxicity. The structure-anti TB activity relationship of these derivatives was explained by molecular docking. 


PMID- 25462271
TI  - Development of 3-hydroxycinnamamide-based HDAC inhibitors with potent in vitro and in vivo anti-tumor activity.
AB  - Inhibition of histone deacetylases (HDACs) has diverse effects on cell function, such as causing differentiation, growth arrest and apoptosis in nearly all types of tumor cell lines. In our previous work, we have designed and synthesized a novel series of 4-hydroxycinnamamide-based and 3-hydroxycinnamamide-based HDAC inhibitors (HDACIs), among which, 3-hydroxycinnamamide-based HDACIs 1a-1c exhibited moderate inhibition against HDACs. In this article, we report the development of a more potent class of 3-hydroxycinnamamide-based HDACIs, compound 7o exhibited much higher pan-HDAC inhibitory activity than positive control SAHA. In addition, compound 7h showed excellent in vitro growth inhibitory activity against more than ten cell lines and induced U937 cells apoptosis in micromolar concentration. In vivo assay in U937 xenograft model identified compound 7h as a potent, orally active HDACI. 


PMID- 25462272
TI  - Identification of quinoline-chalcone hybrids as potential antiulcer agents.
AB  - Antiulcer activity of novel quinoline-chalcone hybrids (13-37) was investigated. Among them, eight compounds (14, 16, 17, 23, 29, 31, 32 and 35) were found to be active in various ulcer models in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. To understand the mechanism of action of these hybrids, the effects of the compounds on antisecretory and cytoprotective activities were studied. All these active hybrids improved the depleted levels of mucin and consequently inhibited the formation of erosions in a pyloric ligated ulcer model. In addition, they also significantly increased the gastric PGE2 content in an aspirin induced ulcer model. The additional experiments including the in vitro metabolic stability and in vivo pharmacokinetics led to the identification of compound 17 as an orally active and safe candidate that is worthy of further investigation to be developed as an antiulcer agent. 


PMID- 25462273
TI  - Synthesis of 2,3-di- and 2,2,3-trisubstituted-3-methoxycarbonyl-gamma-butyrolactones as potent antitumor agents.
AB  - Various 2,3-substituted gamma-butyrolactones have been synthesized by three-component reaction of aryl bromides, dimethyl itaconate and carbonyl compounds. The in vitro cytotoxic activity of these products was evaluated against a representative panel of cancer cell lines (KB, HCT116, MCF7, MCF7R, PC3, SK-OV3, HL60 and HL60R). One compound (4x) displays a good anti-proliferative activity with IC50 in the sub-micromolar range. The mechanism of action has been investigated using flow cytometry. 


PMID- 25462274
TI  - Benzimidazole--ibuprofen/mesalamine conjugates: potential candidates for multifactorial diseases.
AB  - Ibuprofen (IB) and mesalamine (MES) are commonly used NSAIDs whereas benzimidazole (BZ) and 2-aminobenzimidazole (ABZ) are important pharmacophore for immunomodulatory activities. In the present study, IB and MES were coupled with variedly substituted BZ or ABZ nucleus to synthesize IB-BZ (2a-2e), IB-ABZ (3a-3e), MES-BZ (4a-4e) and MES-ABZ (5a-5e) chimeric conjugates as novel compounds that could elicit both anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory activities. Each compound retained the anti-inflammatory activity of the parent NSAID. The BZ conjugates (2 and 4) were found immunostimulatory whereas the ABZ conjugates (3 and 5) were immunosuppressive. Each compound also exhibited good antioxidant activity, which is attributed to the electron rich BZ and ABZ nuclei. Compound 2a, 2e, 3a, 3e and 5b exhibited the most significant anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory activities. Hence, these were evaluated for in vivo acute gastric ulcerogenicity. The compounds were safe to gastric mucosa, probably due to masking of the free -COOH group of IB and MES, and/or to the BZ nucleus itself. A benzoyl group at 5-position of BZ and ABZ incurred maximum immunostimulatory activity. In contrast, a -NO2 group incurred the maximum immunosuppressive action. Docking analysis revealed the compounds to be more selective towards COX-2 enzyme, which support the gastroprotective activity. These results suggest that the compounds can be taken as lead for development of new drugs for the treatment of immune related inflammatory disorders, such as cancer and rheumatoid arthritis.  


PMID- 25462275
TI  - Prospects of an alternative treatment against Trypanosoma cruzi based on abietic acid derivatives show promising results in Balb/c mouse model.
AB  - Chagas disease, caused by the protozoa parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, is an example of extended parasitaemia with unmet medical needs. Current treatments based on old-featured benznidazole (Bz) and nifurtimox are expensive and do not fulfil the criteria of effectiveness, and a lack of toxicity devoid to modern drugs. In this work, a group of abietic acid derivatives that are chemically stable and well characterised were introduced as candidates for the treatment of Chagas disease. In vitro and in vivo assays were performed in order to test the effectiveness of these compounds. Finally, those which showed the best activity underwent additional studies in order to elucidate the possible mechanism of action. In vitro results indicated that some compounds have low toxicity (i.e. >150 MUM, against Vero cell) combined with high efficacy (i.e. <20 MUM) against some forms of T. cruzi. Further in vivo studies on mice models confirmed the expectations of improvements in infected mice. In vivo tests on the acute phase gave parasitaemia inhibition values higher those of Bz, and a remarkable decrease in the reactivation of parasitaemia was found in the chronic phase after immunosuppression of the mice treated with one of the compounds. The morphological alterations found in treated parasites with our derivatives confirmed extensive damage; energetic metabolism disturbances were also registered by (1)H NMR. The demonstrated in vivo activity and low toxicity, together with the use of affordable starting products and the lack of synthetic complexity, put these abietic acid derivatives in a remarkable position toward the development of an anti-Chagasic agent. 


PMID- 25462276
TI  - Deconstruction of 6,7-dimethoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline moiety to separate P-glycoprotein (P-gp) activity from sigma2 receptor affinity in mixed P-gp/sigma2 receptor agents.
AB  - 6,7-Dimethoxytetrahydroisoquinoline is widely used as basic moiety in sigma2 receptor ligands, in order to provide sigma2versus sigma1 selectivity. This same moiety is also widely exploited in modulators of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux pump, so that mixed sigma2/P-gp agents are often obtained. Deconstruction of 6,7-dimethoxytetrahydroisoquinoline moiety present in the potent mixed sigma2/P-gp agent 6,7-dimethoxy-2-[4-[1-(4-fluorophenyl)-1H-indol-3-yl]butyl]-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (1) could lead to the separation of sigma2 affinity from P-gp activity. Therefore, phenethylamino-, benzylamino- and indanamine series were obtained. The NH group was also methylated in the N-phenethylamino series, and ethylated in the benzylamino series, to better match 6,7-dimethoxytetrahydroisoquinoline. The sigma2 affinity drastically decreased with the increase of conformational freedom, whereas alkylation of the NH-group was beneficial for sigma2 receptor interaction. By contrast, deconstruction of 6,7-dimethoxytetrahydroisoquinoline slightly reduced P-gp activity, with dimethoxy-substituted derivatives displaying potent P-gp interaction. Therefore, 'ring-opened' 6,7-dimethoxytetrahydroisoquinoline derivatives represent a promising strategy to obtain P-gp selective agents devoid of sigma2 receptor affinity.  


PMID- 25462277
TI  - Synthesis of novel substituted purine derivatives and identification of the cell death mechanism.
AB  - Novel 9-(substituted amino/piperazinoethyl)adenines (4-12), 6-(substituted piperazino/amino)purines (15-27), 9-(p-toluenesulfonyl/cyclopentyl/ethoxycarbonylmethyl)-6-(substituted amino/piperazino)purines (28-34, 36, 37, 38-41) were synthesized and evaluated initially for their cytotoxic activities on liver Huh7, breast T47D and colon HCT116 carcinoma cells. N(6)-(4-Trifluoromethylphenyl)piperazine derivative (17) and its 9-(p-toluene-sulfonyl)/9-cyclopentyl analogues (28, 36) had promising cytotoxic activities. Compounds 17, 28 and 36 were further analysed for their cytotoxicity in a panel of a liver cancer cell lines. The compound 36 had better cytotoxic activities (IC50 <= 1 MUM) than the nucleobase 5-FU and nucleosides fludarabine, cladribine, and pentostatine on Huh7 cells. Cytotoxicity induced by 36 was later identified as senescence associated cell death by SA-beta-Gal assay. 


PMID- 25462278
TI  - Design, synthesis, and structure--activity-relationship of tetrahydrothiazolopyridine derivatives as potent smoothened antagonists.
AB  - The Smoothened (Smo) receptor is an important component of the hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway, which plays a critical role during embryonic development. In adults, Hh signaling is curtailed and has limited functions such as stem cell maintenance and tissue repair. However, aberrant activity of the Hh signaling in adults has been linked to numerous human cancers. Inhibition of Smo leads to the blockade of Hh signaling, and therefore represents a promising approach toward novel anticancer therapy. Through scaffold morphing of a few known Smo antagonists, a series of novel tetrahydrothiazolopyridine derivatives were developed. Compounds from this new scaffold demonstrated excellent Hh signaling inhibition which was comparable to or better than that of Vismodegib. Further, compound 30 exhibited a lower melting point and a moderately improved solubility compared with those of Vismodegib; compounds 11 and 30 showed good pharmacokinetic profiles with 34% and 77% oral bioavailability in rat, respectively. Collectively, these results strongly support further optimization of this novel scaffold to develop better Smo antagonists.  


PMID- 25462279
TI  - Structural factors affecting affinity of cytotoxic oxathiole-fused chalcones toward tubulin.
AB  - Synthesis, in vitro cytotoxic activity, and interaction with tubulin of (E)-1-(6-alkoxybenzo[d][1,3]oxathiol-5-yl)-3-phenylprop-2-en-1-one derivatives (2) are described. Some of the compounds demonstrated cytotoxic activity at submicromolar concentrations, and the activity could be related to interaction with tubulin at the colchicine binding site. Interaction of selected derivatives with tubulin was evaluated using molecular modeling, and two different modes of the interaction were identified. The proposed models demonstrate how particular structural fragments participate in binding to the tubulin and explain the importance of the fragments for cytotoxic activity. It was demonstrated that concerning binding to tubulin, the 6-alkoxybenzoxathiole ring can be considered as structural equivalent of trimethoxyphenyl motif of colchicine, podophyllotoxin or combretastatin A4. The observation opened new ways of rational modifications of several groups of tubulin binders. 


PMID- 25462280
TI  - Mannich bases in medicinal chemistry and drug design.
AB  - The biological activity of Mannich bases, a structurally heterogeneous class of chemical compounds that are generated from various substrates through the introduction of an aminomethyl function by means of the Mannich reaction, is surveyed, with emphasis on the relationship between structure and biological activity. The review covers extensively the literature reports that have disclosed Mannich bases as anticancer and cytotoxic agents, or compounds with potential antibacterial and antifungal activity in the last decade. The most relevant studies on the activity of Mannich bases as antimycobacterial agents, antimalarials, or antiviral candidates have been included as well. The review contains also a thorough coverage of anticonvulsant, anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antioxidant activities of Mannich bases. In addition, several minor biological activities of Mannich bases, such as their ability to regulate blood pressure or inhibit platelet aggregation, their antiparasitic and anti-ulcer effects, as well as their use as agents for the treatment of mental disorders have been presented. The review gives in the end a brief overview of the potential of Mannich bases as inhibitors of various enzymes or ligands for several receptors.  


PMID- 25462281
TI  - Structural development studies of PPARs ligands based on tyrosine scaffold.
AB  - PPARs are nuclear receptors with a critical physiological role in lipid and glucose metabolism. As part of our effort to develop new and selective PPAR agonists containing stilbene and its bioisoster phenyldiazene, novel analogs were synthesized starting from tyrosine and evaluated as PPAR agonists. We tested the effects of phenyloxazole replacement of GW409544, a well-known PPARalpha/gamma dual agonist, with stilbene or phenyldiazene moiety, spaced by an ether bridge to tyrosine portion. These structural modifications provided potent and selective PPARgamma agonists. Molecular docking studies performed on these new compounds complemented the experimental results and allowed to gain some insights into the nature of binding of the ligands.  


PMID- 25462282
TI  - Design, synthesis and biological evaluation of 6-(nitroimidazole-1H-alkyloxyl)-4-anilinoquinazolines as efficient EGFR inhibitors exerting cytotoxic effects both under normoxia and hypoxia.
AB  - A series of novel 6-(nitroimidazole-1H-alkyloxyl)-4-anilinoquinazoline derivatives (15a-15r) were designed, synthesized and evaluated as efficient EGFR inhibitors through introduction of hypoxia activated nitroimidazole moiety into the quinazoline scaffold of EGFR inhibitors. The majority of these newly synthesized compounds exhibited comparable EGFR inhibitory activities to gefitinib and moderate to excellent anti-proliferative activities against HT-29 cells under normoxia and hypoxia. The most promising compound 15c displayed the IC50 value of 0.47 nM against EGFR kinase and excellent cytotoxic effect against HT-29 cells under normoxia and hypoxia with the IC50 values of 2.21 MUM and 1.62 MUM, respectively. The mimic reductive activation study revealed that compound 15c exerted reductive activation properties under hypoxia, which were consistent with the in vitro metabolic study, wherein 15c was easily reductive activated under hypoxia and much more stable under normoxia. All these results suggested that 15c was a potential cancer therapeutic agent both under normoxia and hypoxia and was worth of further development. 


PMID- 25462283
TI  - Synthesis, bioassay, and QSAR study of bronchodilatory active 4H-pyrano[3,2-c]pyridine-3-carbonitriles.
AB  - A statistically significant QSAR model describing the bioactivity of bronchodilatory active 4H-pyrano[3,2-c]pyridine-3-carbonitriles (N = 41, n = 8, R(2) = 0.824, R(2)cv = 0.724, F = 18.749, s(2) = 0.0018) was obtained employing CODESSA-Pro software. The bronchodilatory active 4H-pyrano[3,2-c]pyridine-3-carbonitriles 17-57 were synthesized through a facile approach via reaction of 1-alkyl-4-piperidones 1-4 with ylidenemalononitriles 5-16 in methanol in the presence of sodium. The bronchodilation properties of 17-57 were investigated in vitro using isolated guinea pig tracheal rings pre-contracted with histamine (standard method) and compared with theophylline (standard reference). Most of the compounds synthesized exhibit promising bronchodilation properties especially, compounds 25 and 28. 


PMID- 25462284
TI  - Exploring binding affinity of oxaliplatin and carboplatin, to nucleoprotein structure of chromatin: spectroscopic study and histone proteins as a target.
AB  - Platinum drugs are potent chemotherapeutic agents widely used in cancer therapy. They exert their biological activity by binding to DNA, producing DNA adducts; however, in the cell nucleus, DNA is complexed with histone proteins into a nucleoprotein structure known as chromatin. The aim of this study was to explore the binding affinity of oxaliplatin and carboplatin to chromatin using spectroscopic as well as thermal denaturation and equilibrium dialysis techniques. The results showed that the drugs quenched with chromophores of chromatin and the quenching effect for oxaliplatin (Ksv = 3.156) was higher than carboplatin (Ksv = 0.28). The binding of the drugs exhibited hypochromicity both in thermal denaturation profiles and UV absorbance at 210 nm. The binding was positive cooperation with spontaneous reaction and oxaliplatin (Ka = 5.3 * 10(3) M(-1), n = 1.7) exhibited higher binding constant and number of binding sites than carboplatin (Ka = 0.33 * 10(3) M(-1), n = 1.0) upon binding to chromatin. Also secondary structure of chromatin proteins was altered upon drugs binding. It is concluded that oxaliplatin represents higher binding affinity to chromatin compared to carboplatin. In chromatin where DNA is compacted into nucleosomes structure with histones, the affinity of the platinated drugs is reduced and histone proteins may play a fundamental role in this binding process. 


PMID- 25462285
TI  - Design, synthesis and biological evaluation of novel pyrenyl derivatives as anticancer agents.
AB  - Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons are widespread in nature with a toxicity range from non-toxic to extremely toxic. A series of pyrenyl derivatives has been synthesized following a four-step strategy where the pyrene nucleus is attached with a basic heterocyclic moiety through a carbon linker. Virtual screening of the physicochemical properties and druggability has been carried out. The cytotoxicity of the compounds (1-8) have been evaluated in vitro against a small panel of human cancer cell lines which includes two liver cancer (HepG2 and Hepa 1-6), two colon cancer (HT-29 and Caco-2) and one each for cervical (HeLa) and breast (MCF-7) cancer cell lines. The IC50 data indicate that compound 6 and 8 are the most effective cytotoxic agents in the present set of pyrenyl derivatives, suggesting that having a 4-carbon linker is more effective than a 5-carbon linker and the presence of amide carbonyl groups in the linker severely reduces the efficacy of the compound. The compounds showed selectivity toward cancer cells at lower doses (<5 MUM) when compared with the normal hepatocytes. The mechanism of action supports the cell death through apoptosis in a caspase-independent manner without cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), even though the compounds cause plasma membrane morphological changes. The compounds, whether highly cytotoxic or mildly cytotoxic, localize to the membrane of cells. The compounds with either a piperidine ring (6) or an N-methyl piperazine (8) in the side chain were both capable of circumventing the drug resistance in SKOV3-MDR1-M6/6 ovarian cancer cells overexpressing P-glycoprotein. Qualitative structure-activity relationship has also been studied. 


PMID- 25462286
TI  - Structures of mGluRs shed light on the challenges of drug development of allosteric modulators.
AB  - The metabotropic glutamate receptor family includes many potential therapeutic targets for a wide range of neurological disorders however to date no approved drugs have progressed to market. For some receptor subtypes it has been difficult to separate therapeutic benefit from undesirable side effects. For others finding suitable drug like molecules has been challenging. Chemotypes identified from screening have been limited and difficult to optimise away from undesirable groups. Frequently within related series, compounds have switched from agonist to antagonists. Recently the structures of the transmembrane domain of mGlu1 and mGlu5 have been solved revealing the binding site of allosteric modulators which provides an understanding of the difficulties to date and an opportunity for future structure based approaches to drug design.  


PMID- 25462287
TI  - Allosteric modulators of NMDA receptors: multiple sites and mechanisms.
AB  - N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) are glutamate-gated ion channels that are essential mediators of excitatory neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity. NMDARs are also implicated in a plethora of neuropathological conditions thus receiving strong interest as potential therapeutic targets. Recent years have witnessed major progress in our understanding of the structure and pharmacology of NMDARs with the decoding of the first full-length receptor crystal structures and the discovery of allosteric modulators acting at novel binding sites and with unique patterns of subunit selectivity. Here we review the properties and structural mechanisms of various allosteric modulators that target NMDARs, emphasizing the newly identified compounds. The expanding pharmacology of NMDARs should help delineate the roles of various NMDAR subtypes in brain function, with potential for drug development. 


PMID- 25462288
TI  - Targeting glutamatergic synapses in Parkinson's disease.
AB  - Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra and dramatic motor and cognitive impairments. The current knowledge indicates that the strength of glutamatergic signals from the cortex to the striatum is regulated during the progression of the disease. The efficacy of ionotropic glutamate receptors to modulate synaptic transmission in the striatum indicates that modulation of the activity of these receptors may represent a key target to rescue the altered neurotransmission in PD. Preclinical and clinical studies suggest that agents targeting ionotropic glutamate receptors may ameliorate the motor symptoms of PD as well as to reduce the onset of levodopa-induced dyskinetic motor behaviour.  


PMID- 25462289
TI  - Targeting metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in Parkinson's disease.
AB  - The interplay between dopamine and glutamate in the basal ganglia regulate critical aspects of motor and cognitive behavior. Metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors are key modulators of glutamatergic dysfunction in Parkinson's disease (PD). Preclinical evidence demonstrate that group I mGlu receptor antagonism and groups II and III mGlu receptor activation improve motor symptomatology of PD and decrease l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia by regulating excitatory and inhibitory transmission in the basal ganglia. Emotional and cognitive deficits are also observed in PD. Treatment of these symptoms is challenging and underscore the need for novel effective and well tolerated pharmacological treatments. This article will thus review the currently available knowledge regarding the therapeutic potential of targeting mGlu receptors to restore motor and nonmotor symptoms of PD.  


PMID- 25462290
TI  - How does ketamine elicit a rapid antidepressant response?
AB  - A single sub-psychotomimetic dose of ketamine, an ionotropic glutamatergic n-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, produces a fast-acting antidepressant response in patients suffering from major depressive disorder. Depressed patients report alleviation of core symptoms within 2 h of a single low-dose intravenous infusion of ketamine with effects lasting up to 2 weeks. The rapidity of ketamine action implies that major symptoms of depression can be alleviated without substantial structural plasticity or circuit rewiring. Therefore, the ability of ketamine to exert a rapid effect provides a unique opportunity to elucidate the types of acute synaptic plasticity changes that can be recruited to counter depression symptoms. 


PMID- 25462291
TI  - Group I and group II metabotropic glutamate receptor allosteric modulators as novel potential antipsychotics.
AB  - Recently, there has been a shift in the schizophrenia field focusing on restoring glutamate signaling. Extensive preclinical data suggests that mGlu5 PAMs could have efficacy in all three symptom domains but there is concern of potential adverse effects. New insights into mechanisms underlying this toxicity may provide a path for discovery of safe mGlu5 PAMs. Genetic mutations in mGlu1 have been described in schizophrenics creating interest in this receptor as a therapeutic target. Preclinical data demonstrated the antipsychotic potential of mGlu2/3 agonists but clinical trials were not successful. However, studies have suggested that mGlu2 is the subtype mediating antipsychotic effects and selective mGlu2 PAMs are now in clinical development. Finally, recent genetic studies suggest mGlu3 modulators may be pro-cognitive.  


PMID- 25462292
TI  - AMPA receptor potentiators: from drug design to cognitive enhancement.
AB  - Positive allosteric modulators of ionotropic glutamate receptors have emerged as a target for treating cognitive impairment and neurodegeneration, but also mental illnesses such as major depressive disorder. The possibility of creating a new class of pharmaceutical agent to treat refractive mental health issues has compelled researchers to redouble their efforts to develop a safe, effective treatment for memory and cognition impairments. Coupled with the more robust research methodologies that have emerged, including more sophisticated high-throughput-screens, higher resolution structural biology techniques, and more focused assessment on pharmacokinetics, the development of positive modulators of AMPA receptors holds great promise. We describe recent approaches that improve our understanding of the basic physiology underlying memory and cognition, and their application toward promoting human health.  


PMID- 25462294
TI  - Reproductive responses of the earthworm (Eisenia fetida) to antiparasitic albendazole exposure.
AB  - Albendazole (ABZ) is a veterinary drug with a high efficiency against helminths. Here reproductive responses of earthworms Eisenia fetida to ABZ exposure (0, 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 mg kg(-1) soil dry weight) were investigated for 56 d in chronic reproduction test, and deformed sperm were counted and morphological alterations in the seminal vesicles were qualitatively assessed by light and transmission electron microscopy. Results have showed that cocoon number of earthworms was more sensitive to low concentrations of ABZ than cocoon hatching success and hatching survival, showing a significant dose-related decrease in cocoon number at 3, 6, 9 and 12 mg kg(-1). In short-time exposure of 14 d, the sperm deformity (%) of earthworms increased at 6, 9 and 12 mg kg(-1), and the microstructural alteration in seminal vesicles was also observed at these concentrations, whereas ultrastructural alteration of germ cells, particularly morphology of mitochondria, was observed at 3 mg kg(-1) and above, suggesting the high sensitivity of germ cell ultrastructure to low concentrations of ABZ in short-time exposure. The results can provide important information for prediction of ecologically significant toxic effects. 


PMID- 25462295
TI  - Impact of repeated single-metal and multi-metal pollution events on soil quality.
AB  - Most frequently, soil metal pollution results from the occurrence of repeated single-metal and, above all, multi-metal pollution events, with concomitant adverse consequences for soil quality. Therefore, in this study, we evaluated the impact of repeated single-metal and multi-metal (Cd, Pb, Cu, Zn) pollution events on soil quality, as reflected by the values of a variety of soil microbial parameters with potential as bioindicators of soil functioning. Specifically, parameters of microbial activity (potentially mineralizable nitrogen, beta-glucosidase and acid phosphatase activity) and biomass (fungal and bacterial gene abundance by RT-qPCR) were determined, in the artificially metal-polluted soil samples, at regular intervals over a period of 26 weeks. Similarly, we studied the evolution over time of CaCl2-extractable metal fractions, in order to estimate metal bioavailability in soil. Different metals showed different values of bioavailability and relative bioavailability ([metal]bio/[metal]tot) in soil throughout the experiment, under both repeated single-metal and multi-metal pollution events. Both repeated Zn-pollution and multi-metal pollution events led to a significant reduction in the values of acid phosphatase activity, and bacterial and fungal gene abundance, reflecting the negative impact of these repeated events on soil microbial activity and biomass, and, hence, soil quality. 


PMID- 25462293
TI  - Recent insights into the mode of action of memantine and ketamine.
AB  - The clinical benefits of the glutamate receptor antagonists memantine and ketamine have helped sustain optimism that glutamate receptors represent viable targets for development of therapeutic drugs. Both memantine and ketamine antagonize N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs), a glutamate receptor subfamily, by blocking the receptor-associated ion channel. Although many of the basic characteristics of NMDAR inhibition by memantine and ketamine appear similar, their effects on humans and to a lesser extent on rodents are strongly divergent. Some recent research suggests that preferential inhibition by memantine and ketamine of distinct NMDAR subpopulations may contribute to the drugs' differential clinical effects. Here we review studies that shed light on possible explanations for differences between the effects of memantine and ketamine. 


PMID- 25462296
TI  - Evaluation of toxicity data to green algae and relationship with hydrophobicity.
AB  - The quality of the biological activity data is of great importance for the development of algal quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) models. However, a number of algal QSAR models in the literature were developed based on toxicity data without considering the response endpoints, exposure periods and species sensitivity. In this paper, 2323 algal toxicity data (log 1/EC50) in different toxicity response endpoints for 1081 compounds to 26 algal species within different exposure periods (14 and 15 min; 24, 48, 72, 96, 168 and 192 h) were used to evaluate the quality of the toxicity data to green algae. Analysis of 72 h toxicity to algae showed that the closed test had the same sensitivity as the open test for most of the test compounds, but a significant difference was observed for a few compounds. The overall average difference for all compounds ranges from 0.15 to 0.43 log units between toxicity endpoints (yield-growth rate). The relationships between exposure periods of 24, 48, 72 and 96 h indicated that 48 h exposure period is the most sensitive for algal growth inhibition test, and its sensitivity is 0.25 log units greater than 72 and 96 h exposure periods, respectively. Interspecies relationships showed that some algal species have very close sensitivity (e.g. Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata and Chlorella pyrenoidosa or Chlorella vulgaris and Scenedesmus obliquus, respectively), whereas some species have significantly different sensitivity (e.g. P. subcapitata and S. obliquus). Relationships between toxicity and hydrophobicity demonstrated that no difference was observed for non-polar narcotics within different exposure periods (24, 48, 72, and 96 h) or response variables (yield and growth rate). For polar narcotics, in contrast, algal toxicity is dependent on algal species and is related to the response variables and exposure period. We cannot expect significant QSAR models between algal toxicity and descriptors without considering species sensitivity, exposure periods and response endpoints. 


PMID- 25462297
TI  - PFOA and PFOS are associated with reduced expression of the parathyroid hormone 2 receptor (PTH2R) gene in women.
AB  - Little is known about interactions between environmental and genetic risk factors for osteoarthritis (OA). Genetic factors include variation or mutation in genes involved in parathyroid hormone signalling. Exposure to the endocrine disrupting chemicals perfluoro-octanoic acid (PFOA) or perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) have been suggested as potential environmental contributors, although evidence to support this association is conflicting. Here we test the hypothesis that PFOA and PFOS may alter the mRNA expression of genes in the parathyroid signalling cascade to provide evidence on possible pathways between these chemicals and OA. We measured the relationship between PFOA or PFOS serum levels and the in vivo expression of the Parathyroid hormone 1 and 2 genes (PTH, PTH2), Parathyroid hormone 1 and 2 receptor genes (PTH1R, PTH2R) and the parathyroid hormone-like (PTHLH) gene in peripheral blood from a cross-sectional population study designed to assess the potential health effects of these chemicals. We used multivariate linear regression models and found that PFOA or PFOS was inversely correlated with parathyroid hormone 2 receptor (PTH2R) expression (coefficients=-0.43 and -0.32, p=p=0.017 and 0.006 for PFOA and PFOS respectively) in 189 female subjects. The levels of PTH2 transcripts encoding the ligand of PTH2r, were also found to be lower in women with OA (median 2.08) compared with controls (median 3.41, p=0.046). As the parathyroid signalling cascade is a known candidate for osteoarthritis risk and our findings raise the possibility that exposure to these chemicals may contribute to the pathogenesis of OA in some individuals.  


PMID- 25462299
TI  - A short-term sublethal toxicity assay with zebra fish based on preying rate and its integration with mortality.
AB  - Contaminant-induced feeding inhibition has direct and immediate consequences at higher levels of biological organization, by depressing the population consumption and thus hampering ecosystem functioning (e.g. grazing, organic matter decomposition). Thus, similarly to lethality and avoidance, feeding is mechanistically linked to ecosystem processes and is therefore an unequivocal ecologically meaningful response. The objective of the present study was to develop a short-term assay with the small freshwater fish Danio rerio, based on feeding. For this, a methodology to easily and precisely quantify feeding was first optimized: each fish was allowed to prey on ten live Daphnia magna juveniles, for 1h, just before the end of a 48-h exposure test period. Secondly, copper sensitivity of feeding relatively to survival and growth was evaluated. At the growth EC20 (40 MUg L(-1)), feeding was inhibited by 53%, and at the feeding EC50 (36 MUg L(-1)), mortality was negligible (1.3%). Integrating feeding and survival revealed a 97% depression in the population consumption at the LC50 (61 MUg L(-1)). Thirdly, the influence of pH, conductivity and hardness on the feeding background variability was assessed by assaying waters collected at eight reference sites and was found to be negligible, within tested ranges. Fourthly, feeding assays with natural waters contaminated with acid mine drainage confirmed the integration of lethality and feeding to be pertinent at estimating contaminant effects at higher levels of biological organization. 


PMID- 25462298
TI  - High resistance of Acropora coral gametes facing copper exposure.
AB  - Pollution by heavy metals remains today an important threat to the health of humans and ecosystems, but there is still a paucity of data on the response of early life stages of key organisms. In this context, the present work assessed the fertilization success rate of two Acropora species (A. cytherea and A. pulchra) from the French Polynesia reefs exposed to six increasing copper concentrations in seawater. The two species showed a relatively high tolerance to copper (4h30-EC50 was 69.4 +/- 4.8 MUg L(-1) and 75.4 +/- 6.4 MUg L(-1) for A. cytherea and A. pulchra, respectively). As Cu concentration increases, an increasing proportion of deformed embryos was recorded (67.6% and 58.5% for A. cytherea and A. pulchra, respectively, at 220 MUg Cu L(-1)). These results demonstrated thus, that high levels of copper could negatively impair the normal fertilization process of coral gametes and therefore alter the renewal of coral populations. Since the two Acropora species investigated in this study displayed a high resistance to copper, these results should be considered in the context of multiple stressors associated with climate change, where rising temperature or ocean acidification may significantly exacerbate copper toxicity. 


PMID- 25462300
TI  - Distribution and composition pattern of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in different tissues of sturgeons collected from Iranian coastline of the Caspian Sea.
AB  - The levels of 16 polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) were determined in the liver, kidney, gills and muscle tissues of Persian sturgeon (Acipenser persicus; n=16), and Stellate sturgeon (Acipenser stellatus; n=7) collected from coastal waters of the South Caspian Sea from March and April 2011. The distribution and composition pattern of PAHs in the different tissues of sturgeons, and the effects of lipid content in sturgeon tissues and the octanol-water partition coefficient (Kow) of PAHs congeners on them were analyzed. The levels of total PAHs in the various tissues of Persian sturgeon and Stellate sturgeon ranged from 2.095 to 6.587 and 1.942 to 6.206 MUg g(-1)dw, respectively. Stellate sturgeon showed significantly higher levels of heavy PAHs (? 4-rings) than Persian sturgeon. The analysis has revealed a high degree of differential accumulation of the studied PAHs in the tissues of the both species. Low molecular weight PAHs predominated in the sturgeons, accounting for 81.89% of the total PAHs. Among the sixteen tested PAHs, naphthalene was the most dominant congener, followed by phenanthrene and fluorene. The PAHs levels and distribution in the tissues of sturgeons are dependent on both the Kow of PAH congeners and the lipid content in these tissues. There was a significant positive relationship (r=0.868, p<0.005) between lipid content and PAHs levels. The statistically significant negative relationships (p<0.01) were found between log Kow and log-transformed PAHs levels for muscle tissues of both sturgeon species. 


PMID- 25462301
TI  - Serum cotinine and urinary 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanonol levels among non-Hispanic Asian American smokers and nonsmokers as compared to other race/ethnicities: data from NHANES 2011-2012.
AB  - The objective of this study was to evaluate serum cotinine and total urinary 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanonol (NNAL) levels from a nationally representative sample of non-Hispanic Asian Americans as compared with other racial/ethnic groups. Data from the latest National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey for the years 2011-2012 were used for this purpose. The total sample size used was 4580. Regression models were fitted to estimate serum cotinine and urinary NNAL levels for smokers and nonsmokers aged 20 years and older adjusted for other factors that affect these levels. For nonsmokers, exposure to second hand smoke at home was associated with about 30 times higher serum cotinine levels when compared to those without such exposure (0.717 ng mL(-1) vs. 0.024 ng mL(-1), p<0.01). NNAL levels among nonsmokers with second hand smoke exposure at home were about twenty times what they were in those without such exposure (9 pg mL(-1) vs. 109 pg mL(-1), p<0.01). As compared to other racial/ethnic groups, the lowest adjusted serum cotinine levels occurred in non-Hispanic Asian smokers (92.6 ng mL(-1)) and Hispanics (84.5 ng mL(-1)) as compared to non-Hispanic whites (143.8 ng mL(-1)) and non-Hispanic blacks (158.4 ng mL(-1)). Urinary NNAL levels for smokers were in the order: non-Hispanic Asian (0.121 ng mL(-1))<non-Hispanic blacks (0.139 ng mL(-1))<Hispanics (0.201 ng mL(-1))<non-Hispanic whites (0.234 ng mL(-1)). Compared to non-Hispanic whites, non-Hispanic blacks had substantially higher levels of serum cotinine but substantially lower levels of urinary NNAL irrespective of smoking status thus pointing towards differences in elimination kinetics of nicotine/cotinine and NNAL. 


PMID- 25462302
TI  - Biological uptake and depuration of sulfadiazine and sulfamethoxazole in common carp (Cyprinus carpio).
AB  - Sulfonamides, a class of the most commonly used antibiotics, are being increasingly released into the aquatic environment and have recently caused considerable concerns. However, knowledge on their fate and ecotoxicological effects upon aquatic organisms is not understood yet. This work investigated mainly the bioconcentration kinetics (uptake/depuration) of sulfadiazine (SDZ) and sulfamethoxazole (SMZ) in common carp (Cyprinus carpio) by exposure in different concentrations under semi-static conditions for 48 d. The uptake rate (k1), growth-corrected depuration rate (k 2g), and biological half-lives (t1/2) of two sulfonamides in liver and muscle were determined and they were 0.135-9.84 L kg(-1)d(-1), 0.0361-0.838 d(-1), 8.3-19.2d, respectively. With exposure concentrations increasing, the uptake rates in liver and muscle decreased obviously but the depuration rates were not closely related with the exposure concentrations. SDZ exhibited higher uptake but lower excretion rates in almost all the liver and muscle than SMZ, resulting in both higher BCFs and half-lives for SDZ. The growth-corrected bioconcentration factors (BCF kg) were measured to be 1.65-165.73 L kg(-1)ww and their averages were in good consistency with the values predicted by previous models within one log unit. The work presented here was the first to model bioconcentration of SMZ and SDZ from water by laboratory-exposed fish. 


PMID- 25462303
TI  - Modulation of excitatory synaptic transmission in rat hippocampal CA3 neurons by triphenyltin, an environmental pollutant.
AB  - Triphenyltin (TPT) is an organometallic compound that poses a known environmental hazard to some fish and mollusks, as well as mammals. However, its neurotoxic mechanisms in the mammalian brain are still unclear. Thus, we have investigated mechanisms through which TPT modulates glutamatergic synaptic transmission, including spontaneous, miniature, and evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs, mEPSCs, and eEPSCs respectively), in a rat hippocampal CA3 'synaptic-bouton' preparation. TPT, at environmentally relevant concentrations (30 nM to 1 MUM), significantly increased the frequency of sEPSCs and mEPSCs in a concentration-dependent manner, without affecting the currents' amplitudes. The facilitatory effects of TPT on mEPSC frequency were seen even in a Ca(2+)-free external solution containing tetrodotoxin. These effects were further prolonged by adding caffeine, which releases Ca(2+) from intracellular Ca(2+) storage sites. In glutamatergic eEPSCs evoked by paired-pulse stimuli, TPT at concentrations greater than or equal to 100 nM markedly increased the current amplitude by the first pulse and decreased failure rate and pair-pulse ratio. On the other hand, both voltage-dependent Na(+) and Ca(2+) channels were unaffected by submicromolar concentrations of TPT. Overall, these results suggest that TPT, at environmentally relevant concentrations, affects presynaptic transmitter release machinery by directly modulating Ca(2+) storage. Further, findings of this study imply that excitotoxic mechanisms may underlie TPT-induced neuronal damage. 


PMID- 25462304
TI  - Toxic potencies of metabolite(s) of non-cylindrospermopsin producing Cylindrospermopsis raciborskii isolated from temperate zone in human white cells.
AB  - Cylindrospermopsis raciborskii (Nostocales, Cyanobacteria) has worldwide distribution and is well known for producing the toxic alkaloid, cylindrospermopsin (CYN). Strains unable to synthesize this compound but potentially toxic were recently identified in Europe. Here, for the first time the effect of cell-free extracts of a non-CYN-producing strain of C. raciborskii was studied in human cells (neutrophils and lymphocytes) isolated from healthy donors. The observed effects were compared to those induced by CYN (1.0-0.01 MUg mL(-1)). Short-term (1h) extract treatments resulted in altered viability of cells demonstrated by increased necrosis and apoptosis in neutrophils and elevated apoptosis in lymphocytes. CYN did not induce similar effects, regardless of the toxin concentration. Exposure of T-lymphocytes to 100% C. raciborskii extract in isolated and whole-blood 72 h cultures resulted in decrease of proliferation by 20.6% and 32.5%, respectively. In comparison, exposure to 1.0 MUg mL(-1) of CYN caused lymphocytes proliferation to be inhibited by 91.0% in isolated cultures and 56.5% in whole-blood assay. Significant antiproliferative properties were also found for 0.1 MUg mL(-1) of CYN in whole-blood culture. From the results we conclude that strains occurring in temperate zones may pose a threat to human health through the production of hitherto unknown metabolites that reveal a toxic pattern different to that of CYN. At the same time our study demonstrates that CYN is a powerful but slowly-acting toxin in human immune cells. 


PMID- 25462305
TI  - Adsorption kinetics of pesticide in soil assessed by optofluidics-based biosensing platform.
AB  - The adsorption of pesticides in soil is a key process that affects transport, degradation, mobility, and bioaccumulation of these substances. To obtain extensive knowledge regarding the adsorption processes of pesticides in the environment, the new green assay technologies for the rapid, sensitive, field-deployable, and accurate quantification of pesticides are required. In the present study, an evanescent wave-based optofluidics biosensing platform (EWOB) was developed by combining advanced photonics and microfluidics technology for the rapid sensitive immunodetection and adsorption kinetics assay of pesticides. The robustness, reusability, and accuracy of the EWOB allow an enhanced prediction of pesticide adsorption kinetics in soil. Using atrazine (ATZ) as the target model, we found that the adsorption kinetics in soil followed a pseudo-second-order kinetic model. EWOB was compared with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method and yielded a good correlation coefficient (r(2)=0.9968). The underestimated results of LC-MS/MS resulted in a higher adsorption constant of ATZ in soil derived from LC-MS/MS than that of a biosensor. The proposed EWOB system provides a simple, green, and powerful tool to investigate the transport mechanism and fate of pesticide residues.  


PMID- 25462306
TI  - In vitro immune toxicity of polybrominated diphenyl ethers on murine peritoneal macrophages: apoptosis and immune cell dysfunction.
AB  - Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are widely used as flame retardants and are often detected in the environment, wildlife, and humans, presenting potential threats to ecosystem and human health. PBDEs can cause neurotoxicity, hepatotoxicity, and endocrine disruption. However, data on PBDE immunotoxicity are limited, and the toxicity mechanisms remain largely unknown. Both immune cell death and dysfunction can modulate the responses of the immune system. This study examined the toxic effects of 2,2',4,4'-tetrabromodiphenyl ether (BDE-47) and decabromodiphenyl ether (BDE-209) on the immune system by using peritoneal macrophages as the model. The macrophages were exposed to PBDEs, and cell death was determined through flow cytometry and immunochemical blot. The results showed that after 24h of exposure, BDE-47 (>5 MUM) and BDE-209 (>20 MUM) induced cell apoptosis, increased intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation and depleted glutathione. BDE-47 was more potent than BDE-209; the cytotoxic concentrations for BDE-47 and BDE-209 were determined to be 5 MUM and 20 MUM, respectively, during 24h of exposure. However, pretreatment with n-acetyl-l-cysteine (ROS scavenger) partially reversed the cytotoxic effects. Further gene expression analyses on Caspase-3,-8,-9, TNFR1, and Bax revealed that both intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways were activated. More importantly, non-cytotoxic concentrations BDE-47 (<2 MUM) and BDE-209 (<10 MUM) could impair macrophage accessory cell function in a concentration-dependent manner, but no effects were observed on phagocytic responses. These revealed effects of PBDEs on macrophages may shed light on the toxicity mechanisms of PBDEs and suggest the necessity of evaluating cellular functionality during the risk assessment of PBDE immunotoxicity. 


PMID- 25462307
TI  - Transformation pathways of MeO-PBDEs catalyzed by active center of P450 enzymes: a DFT investigation employing 6-MeO-BDE-47 as a case.
AB  - Recent in vivo and in vitro experiments indicated that methoxylated polybrominated diphenyl ethers (MeO-PBDEs) can be biotransformed into hydroxylated PBDEs (HO-PBDEs) that are more toxic than PBDEs and MeO-PBDEs. Nevertheless, the enzymatic transformation mechanism is not clear. We hypothesized that cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYPs) play a key role in the transformation and employed the density functional theory calculations to unveil the mechanism. The transformation of a model compound, 6-MeO-BDE-47, catalyzed by the active center of CYPs (Compound I), was computed. For the first time, our results show that the energy barriers for the addition of Compound I to the C atoms on the phenyl of 6-MeO-BDE-47 are much higher than that for hydroxylation of the methoxyl, indicating that O-demethylation is a dominating metabolic pathway. This is in line with experimental observations performed by others. The pathways for the transformation of 6-MeO-BDE-47 catalyzed by Compound I were clarified. A C-H bond of the methoxyl is activated by Compound I, followed by radical rebound to form carbinol intermediates, then the carbinols decompose to form 6-HO-BDE-47 with the assistance of water molecules. The computational method can be potentially employed to develop models that predict biotransformation of xenobiotics catalyzed by CYPs.  


PMID- 25462308
TI  - Effect of malachite green toxicity on non target soil organisms.
AB  - Although malachite green (MG), is banned in Europe and US for its carcinogenic and teratogenic effect, the dye being cheap, is persistently used in various countries for fish farming, silk, dye, leather and textile industries. Current research, however, fails to elucidate adequate knowledge concerning the effects of MG in our ecosystem. In the present investigation, for the first time, an attempt has been made to study the effects of MG on soil biota by testing Bacillus subtilis, Azotobacter chroococcum, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Penicillium roqueforti, Eisenia fetida and seeds of three crop plants of different families. Various tests were conducted for determining cytotoxicity, genotoxicity, acute toxicity, morphological and germination effect. Our data confirmed MG toxicity on fungi and bacteria (gram positive and gram negative organisms) showing elevated level of ROS. Genotoxicity caused in the microorganisms was detected by DNA polymorphism and fragmentation. Also, scanning electron microscopy data suggests that the inhibitory effect of MG to these beneficial microbes in the ecosystem might be due to pore formation in the cell and its eventual disruption. Filter paper and artificial soil test conducted on earthworms demonstrated a LC 50 of 2.6 mg cm(-2) and 1.45 mg kg(-1) respectively with severe morphological damage. However, seed germination of Mung bean, Wheat and Mustard was found to be unaffected in presence of MG up to 100 mL(-1) concentration. Thus, understanding MG toxicity in non target soil organisms and emphasis on its toxicological effects would potentially explicate its role as an environmental contaminant. 


PMID- 25462309
TI  - Speciation and environmental risk assessment of heavy metal in bio-oil from liquefaction/pyrolysis of sewage sludge.
AB  - Liquefaction bio-oil (LBO) produced with ethanol (or acetone) as the solvent and pyrolysis bio-oil (PBO) produced at 550 degrees C (or 850 degrees C) from sewage sludge (SS) were produced, and were characterized and evaluated in terms of their heavy metal (HM) composition. The total concentration, speciation and leaching characteristic of HMs (Cu, Cr, Pb, Zn, Cd, and Ni) in both LBO and PBO were investigated. The total concentration and exchangeable fraction of Zn and Ni in bio-oils were at surprisingly high levels. Quantitative risk assessment of HM in bio-oils was performed by the method of risk assessment code (RAC), potential ecological risk index (PERI) and geo-accumulation index (GAI). Ni in bio-oil produced by pyrolysis at 850 degrees C (PBO850) and Zn in bio-oil by liquefaction at 360 degrees C with ethanol as solvent (LBO-360E) were evaluated to possess very high risk to the environment according to RAC. Additionally, Cd in PBO850 and LBO-360E were evaluated by PERI to have very high risk and high risk, respectively, while Cd in all bio-oils was assessed moderately contaminated according to GAI.  


PMID- 25462310
TI  - The phosphorus speciations in the sediments up- and down-stream of cascade dams along the middle Lancang River.
AB  - We detected the longitudinal variability of phosphorus speciations and its relation to metals and grain size distribution of sediments in three cascade canyon reservoirs (Xiaowan, Manwan and Dachaoshan) along Lancang River, China. Five phosphorus speciations including loosely bound P (ex-P), reductant soluble P (BD-P), metal oxide-bound P (NaOH-P) calcium-bound P (HCl-P) and residual-P were extracted and quantified. Results showed that in Manwan Reservoir HCl-P accounted for the largest part of total phosphorus (TP) (49.69%), while in Xiaowan and Dachaoshan reservoirs, NaOH-P was the most abundant speciation which accounted for 57.21% and 55.19% of total phosphorus respectively. Higher contents of bio-available phosphorus in Xiaowan and Dachaoshan reservoirs suggested a high rate of P releasing from sediments. Results also showed ex-P and HCl-P had positive correlation with Ca. Total phosphorus was positively correlated with Fe. The silt/clay contents of the sediments had close relationship with ex-P (r=0.413, p<0.05), NaOH-P (r=0.428, p<0.05) and BAP (r=0.458, p<0.05). The concentration of Ca, Mn and silt/clay speciation in the sediments explained 40%, 10% and 4% of the spatial variation of phosphorus speciations, respectively.  


PMID- 25462311
TI  - Discrimination of excess toxicity from narcotic effect: influence of species sensitivity and bioconcentration on the classification of modes of action.
AB  - The toxicity data of 2624 chemicals to fish, Daphniamagna, Tetrahymenapyriformis and Vibriofischeri were used to investigate the effects of species sensitivity and bioconcentration on excess toxicity. The results showed that 47 chemical classes were identified as having the same modes of action (MOAs) to all four species, but more than half of the classes were identified as having different MOAs. Difference in chemical MOAs is one of the reasons resulting in the difference in toxic effect to these four species. Other important reasons are the difference in sensitivity and bioconcentration of species. Among the four species, V. fischeri has the most compounds identified as reactive MOA. This may be due to some compounds can be easily absorbed into the bacteria, react with the DNA or proteins, disrupt the normal function of the cell and exhibit significantly greater toxicity to the bacteria. On the other hand, the skin and lipid content of aqueous organisms can strongly inhibit the bio-uptake for some reactive compounds, resulting in a less toxic effect than expected. D. magna is the most sensitive species and T. pyriformis is the least sensitive species of the four species. For a comparison of interspecies toxicity, we need to use the same reference threshold of excess toxicity. However, some reactive compounds may be identified as baseline or less inert compounds for low sensitive species from the threshold developed from high sensitive species. The difference in the discrimination of excess toxicity to different species is not only because of the difference in MOAs for some compounds, but also due to the difference in sensitivity and bioconcentration.  


PMID- 25462312
TI  - Cerium chloride heptahydrate (CeCl3 . 7H2O) induces muscle paralysis in the generalist herbivore, Melanoplus sanguinipes (Fabricius) (Orthoptera: Acrididae), fed contaminated plant tissues.
AB  - Of increasing economic importance are the rare earth elements (REEs). Pollution from mining and processing activity is expected to rise with industrial demand. Plants are known to accumulate REEs, although levels vary with species and soil content. However, the effect on wildlife of ingesting REE contaminated vegetation is not well understood. Here we examined the effect of consuming vegetation with elevated levels of cerium on the generalist grasshopper, Melanoplus sanguinipes (Fabricius). Adults excreted a substantial portion of ingested contamination. However, after only four-days of feeding, accumulation in the body occurred at all doses and paralysis of appendages resulted at the highest doses. Short-term toxicity studies may underestimate the impact of ingesting REE contamination. Metals tend to be low in toxicity; however, their persistence in the environment may be better represented by exposure over longer portions of the life cycle.  


PMID- 25462313
TI  - QSTR modeling for predicting aquatic toxicity of pharmacological active compounds in multiple test species for regulatory purpose.
AB  - High concentrations of pharmacological active compounds (PACs) detected in global drinking water resources and their toxicological implications in aquatic life has become a matter of concern compelling for the development of reliable QSTRs (qualitative/quantitative structure-toxicity relationships) for their risk assessment. Robust QSTRs, such as decision treeboost (DTB) and decision tree forest (DTF) models implementing stochastic gradient boosting and bagging algorithms were established by experimental toxicity data of structurally diverse PACs in daphnia using molecular descriptors for predicting toxicity of new untested compounds in multiple test species. Developed models were rigorously validated using OECD recommended internal and external validation procedures and predictive power tested with external data of different trophic level test species (algae and fish). Classification QSTRs (DTB, DTF) rendered accuracy of 98.73% and 97.47%, respectively in daphnia and 84.38%, 85.94% (algae), 78.46% and 79.23% (fish). On the other hand, the regression QSTRs (DTB, DTF) yielded squared correlation coefficient values of 0.831, 0.852 (daphnia), 0.534, 0.556 (algae) and 0.620, 0.637 (fish). QSTRs developed in this study passed the OECD validation criteria and performed better than reported earlier for predicting toxicity of PACs, and can be used for screening the new untested compounds for regulatory purpose.  


PMID- 25462314
TI  - Survey of the mutagenicity of surface water, sediments, and drinking water from the Penobscot Indian Nation.
AB  - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA) Regional Applied Research Effort (RARE) projects address the effects of environmental pollutants in a particular region on the health of the population in that region. This report is part of a RARE project that addresses this for the Penobscot Indian Nation (PIN), Penobscot Island, Maine, U.S., where the Penobscot River has had fish advisories for many years due to high levels of mercury. We used the Salmonella mutagenicity assay with strains TA100, TA98, YG1041, and YG1042 with and without metabolic activation to assess the mutagenic potencies of organic extracts of the Penobscot River water and sediment, as well as drinking-water samples, all collected by the PIN Department of Natural Resources. The source water for the PIN drinking water is gravel-packed groundwater wells adjacent to the Penobscot River. Most samples of all extracts were either not mutagenic or had low to moderate mutagenic potencies. The average mutagenic potencies (revertants/L-equivalent) were 337 for the drinking-water extracts and 177 for the river-water extracts; the average mutagenic potency for the river-sediment extracts was 244 revertants(g-equivalent)(-1). This part of the RARE project showed that extracts of the Penobscot River water and sediments and Penobscot drinking water have little to no mutagenic activity that might be due to the classes of compounds that the Salmonella mutagenicity assay detects, such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), nitro-PAHs (nitroarenes), and aromatic amines. This study is the first to examine the mutagenicity of environmental samples from a tribal nation in the U.S. 


PMID- 25462315
TI  - Cumulative risk assessment lessons learned: a review of case studies and issue papers.
AB  - Cumulative risk assessments (CRAs) examine potential risks posed by exposure to multiple and sometimes disparate environmental stressors. CRAs are more resource intensive than single chemical assessments, and pose additional challenges and sources of uncertainty. CRAs may examine the impact of several factors on risk, including exposure magnitude and timing, chemical mixture composition, as well as physical, biological, or psychosocial stressors. CRAs are meant to increase the relevance of risk assessments, providing decision makers with information based on real world exposure scenarios that improve the characterization of actual risks and hazards. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has evaluated a number of CRAs, performed by or commissioned for the Agency, to seek insight into CRA concepts, methods, and lessons learned. In this article, ten case studies and five issue papers on key CRA topics are examined and a set of lessons learned are identified for CRA implementation. The lessons address the iterative nature of CRAs, importance of considering vulnerability, need for stakeholder engagement, value of a tiered approach, new methods to assess multiroute exposures to chemical mixtures, and the impact of geographical scale on approach and purpose.  


PMID- 25462316
TI  - Assessing the transfer of risk due to transportation of agricultural products.
AB  - Health risk assessment (HRA) is the process used to estimate adverse health effects on humans. The importance and sensitivity of food chains to HRA have been observed, but the impact of the transportation of food has generally been ignored. This study developed an exposure assessment to demonstrate the significance of the transportation of agricultural products in HRA. The associated case study estimated the health risks derived from various sources of arsenic emissions in Taiwan. Two assessment scenarios, self-sufficiency and transportation of agricultural products, were compared to calculate risk transfer ratios that show the impact of agriculture transportation. The risk transfer ratios found by the study range from 0.22 to 42.10, indicating that the quantity of transportation of agricultural products is the critical factor. High air deposition and high agricultural production are the two main contributors to the effect of the transportation of agricultural products on HRA. Risk reduction measures could be applied to high-pollution areas as well as to areas with high agricultural productivity to reduce ingestion risks to residents. Certain areas that are sensitive to the transportation of agricultural products may incur more risks if emissions increase in agriculturally productive counties.  


PMID- 25462317
TI  - Acute toxicity and risk assessment of permethrin, naled, and dichlorvos to larval butterflies via ingestion of contaminated foliage.
AB  - Three Florida native larval butterflies (Junonia coenia, Anartia jatrophae, Eumaeus atala) were used in the present study to determine the acute toxicity, hazard, and risk of a 24h ingestion of leaves contaminated with the adult mosquito control insecticides permethrin, naled, and dichlorvos to late 4th and early 5th in-star caterpillars. Based on 24-h LD50s for ingestion, naled was more acutely toxic than permethrin and dichlorvos to caterpillars. Hazard quotients using the ratio of the highest doses and the 90th percentile doses from field measurements in host plant foliage following actual mosquito control applications to the toxicological benchmarks from laboratory toxicity tests indicate potential high acute hazard for naled compared to permethrin and dichlorvos. Based on probabilistic ecological risk methods, naled exposure doses in the environment also presented a higher acute risk to caterpillars than permethrin and dichlorvos. The acute toxicity laboratory results and ecological risk assessment are based only on dietary ingestion and single chemical doses. It does not include other typical exposure scenarios that may occur in the environment. It is thus plausible to state that the ecological risk assessment presented here underestimates the potential risks in the field to caterpillars. However, one assumption that is scientifically feasible and certainly real from the results - if the environmental exposure doses of mosquito control operations are similar or higher to those presented here in leaves from the field, after applications, there will likely be significant mortalities and other adverse effects on caterpillar populations.  


PMID- 25462318
TI  - Acute nitrogen dioxide (NO2) exposure enhances airway inflammation via modulating Th1/Th2 differentiation and activating JAK-STAT pathway.
AB  - Nitrogen dioxide (NO2) is an air pollutant associated with poor respiratory health, asthma exacerbation, and an increased likelihood of inhalational allergies. However, the underlying mechanisms are not clear. In the present study, the airway inflammatory response was first assessed in rats exposed to 5mg/m(3) NO2 for seven days. The results showed that NO2 exposure caused the pulmonary pathological alteration, and significantly stimulated MUC5AC expression. Following this, obviously up-regulated changes of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-6, and ICAM-1) were observed. Also, NO2 inhalation induced the imbalance in the ratio of Th1/Th2 differentiation (IL-4, IFN-gamma, GATA-3 and T-bet) and the activation of following JAK-STAT pathway (JAK1, JAK3 and STAT6). The findings clarify an important mechanism for NO2 inhalation being injurious to the lung and augmenting the degree of allergic airway inflammation.  


PMID- 25462319
TI  - Hepatic positive and negative antioxidant responses in zebrafish after intraperitoneal administration of toxic microcystin-LR.
AB  - Microcystin-LR (MC-LR) is the most toxic and common among microcystins. In order to understand the possible molecular mechanisms of hepatic antioxidation and detoxification, the activities and transcriptional levels of antioxidant enzymes including catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione S-transferases (GST), and glutathione (GSH) contents as well as histopathological changes were studied in the liver of female zebrafish injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) at doses of 50 and 200 MUg MC-LR kg(-1) body weight (BW) respectively. In the low dose group (50 MUg MC-LR kg(-1)), zebrafish displayed a little unease at the initial 1h post-injection (hpi), slight hepatic injury and quick recovery, and enhanced enzymatic activities and up-regulated gene expression of antioxidant enzymes. In contrast, high dose of MC-LR (200 MUg MC-LR kg(-1)) resulted in uneasiness and frantic swimming, severe hepatic injury, and suppressed enzymatic activities and down-regulated gene expression of antioxidant enzymes. GSH depletion in both dose groups may be explained by enhanced antioxidant reactions and higher rates of MC conjugation, suggesting the crucial roles of GSH in both cellular antioxidant protection and MC-LR detoxification. This study demonstrated that administration of MC-LR caused a positive response in the low dose group but a negative response in the high dose group. Hepatic positive/negative responses in the low/high dose group might result from an increased/decreased synthesis of antioxidant enzymes at the molecular level, respectively. These results illustrated that antioxidant status played an important role in zebrafish protection against MC-LR-caused oxidative stress through regulating antioxidant enzyme gene expression and activities. 


PMID- 25462320
TI  - [Unexpectedly high proportion of preschool children immune to hepatitis A virus. Contact tracing investigation shows the need for vaccination prior to traveling abroad].
AB  - Hepatitis A (HAV) is a low incidence infectious disease in Sweden, and a majority of cases in this country are acquired abroad, although domestic cases are not uncommon in the day care setting. We investigated an outbreak of hepatitis A in two day care centres and found that a large proportion (23%) of the 113 unvaccinated preschool children were immune to HAV. This observation indicates that there may have been sub-clinical cases of HAV at the two centres. The results of our study underscore the importance of HAV vaccination in preschool children prior to travel to areas where this disease is common. The findings also highlight the need for up-to-date national seroepidemiological data on HAV immunity in different age groups in Sweden. Studies aimed at obtaining such information could also provide a basis for deciding whether targeted vaccination strategies against HAV are needed in the day care setting.  


PMID- 25462321
TI  - [Outbreak of hepatitis A in a preschool--fresh seroprevalence data needed].
AB  - 


PMID- 25462324
TI  - [Sexual counseling is important in cardiovascular disease. Returning to sexual activity is a common concern].
AB  - Decreased sexual activity among cardiac patients is frequently reported. Rates of erectile dysfunction among men with cardiovascular disease (CVD) are twice as high as those in the general population with similar rates of sexual dysfunction in females with CVD. Returning to sexual activity is a common concern, and patients frequently request information on how to resume sexual activity. Partners also have considerable concerns, often more so than patients; why sexual counseling is important for both cardiac patients and their partners. In general, healthcare professionals, in caring for patients recognize the importance of discussing sexual function and activity and also express their responsibility to do so, although many healthcare professionals do not know what specific advice to give. Therefore, the intent of a consensus statement made by the American and European heart associations is to summarize current evidence related to sexual counseling in cardiovascular disease, and to provide direction to physicians, nurses, and other healthcare professionals in the practice of sexual counseling.   


PMID- 25462323
TI  - [Prolonged disorder of consciousness after severe acquired brain injury in adults. New recommendations provide a basis for investigation and rehabilitation].
AB  - After severe acquired brain injury some patients develop a prolonged disorder of consciousness (vegetative state or minimally conscious state), and as such cannot actively participate in neurorehabilitation. However, international opinion and recent research developments emphasize the need for involvement of rehabilitation medicine units in the care of these patients. The article presents recommendations for the care of adult patients with prolonged disorders of consciousness, which have been developed by a multidisciplinary working party, in order to promote good care, and identify areas for further improvements.  


PMID- 25462325
TI  - Identification of gene knockout strategies using a hybrid of an ant colony optimization algorithm and flux balance analysis to optimize microbial strains.
AB  - Reconstructions of genome-scale metabolic networks from different organisms have become popular in recent years. Metabolic engineering can simulate the reconstruction process to obtain desirable phenotypes. In previous studies, optimization algorithms have been implemented to identify the near-optimal sets of knockout genes for improving metabolite production. However, previous works contained premature convergence and the stop criteria were not clear for each case. Therefore, this study proposes an algorithm that is a hybrid of the ant colony optimization algorithm and flux balance analysis (ACOFBA) to predict near optimal sets of gene knockouts in an effort to maximize growth rates and the production of certain metabolites. Here, we present a case study that uses Baker's yeast, also known as Saccharomyces cerevisiae, as the model organism and target the rate of vanillin production for optimization. The results of this study are the growth rate of the model organism after gene deletion and a list of knockout genes. The ACOFBA algorithm was found to improve the yield of vanillin in terms of growth rate and production compared with the previous algorithms. 


PMID- 25462326
TI  - Molecular simulation investigation on the interaction between barrier-to-autointegration factor dimer or its Gly25Glu mutant and LEM domain of emerin.
AB  - The interaction between barrier-to-autointegration factor dimer (BAF2) and LEM domain of emerin (EmLEM) was studied by molecular simulation methods. Nonspecific fragment of double-strand DNA molecule was docked with each chain of BAF2 by ZDOCK program. The model of DNA2:BAF2:EmLEM was thus constructed. The mutant Gly25Glu of BAF2 was manually constructed to explore the detailed effect of the mutation on the binding of BAF2 and EmLEM. It has been experimentally suggested that point mutation Gly25Glu can disturb the binding between BAF2 and EmLEM. Then, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were performed on DNA2:BAF2(WT):EmLEM and DNA2:BAF2(MT):EmLEM complexes. 30ns trajectories revealed that the trajectory fluctuations of MT complex are more violent than that of the WT complex. Further, the binding free energy analysis showed that the electronegative residues Asp57, Glu61 and Asp65 from chain A, glu36 from chain B of BAF2 mainly contribute to interact with EmLEM. Besides, a stable pi-pi stack between trp62 and phe39 from BAF2(WT) chain B is destroyed by Glu25 in BAF2(MT). As a result, trp62 forms an interaction with glu25, and phe39 converts to strengthen affinity to EmLEM. On the other hand, Trp62 from chain A also forms a strong interaction with MT Glu25. Thus, with the docking of DNA, BAF2(MT) has higher affinity with EmLEM than BAF2(WT). 


PMID- 25462327
TI  - Hierarchical closeness efficiently predicts disease genes in a directed signaling network.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Many structural centrality measures were proposed to predict putative disease genes on biological networks. Closeness is one of the best-known structural centrality measures, and its effectiveness for disease gene prediction on undirected biological networks has been frequently reported. However, it is not clear whether closeness is effective for disease gene prediction on directed biological networks such as signaling networks. RESULTS: In this paper, we first show that closeness does not significantly outperform other well-known centrality measures such as Degree, Betweenness, and PageRank for disease gene prediction on a human signaling network. In addition, we observed that prediction accuracy by the closeness measure was worse than that by a reachability measure, but closeness could efficiently predict disease genes among a set of genes with the same reachability value. Based on this observation, we devised a novel structural measure, hierarchical closeness, by combining reachability and closeness such that all genes are first ranked by the degree of reachability and then the tied genes are further ranked by closeness. We discovered that hierarchical closeness outperforms other structural centrality measures in disease gene prediction. We also found that the set of highly ranked genes in terms of hierarchical closeness is clearly different from that of hub genes with high connectivity. More interestingly, these findings were consistently reproduced in a random Boolean network model. Finally, we found that genes with relatively high hierarchical closeness are significantly likely to encode proteins in the extracellular matrix and receptor proteins in a human signaling network, supporting the fact that half of all modern medicinal drugs target receptor-encoding genes. CONCLUSION: Taken together, hierarchical closeness proposed in this study is a novel structural measure to efficiently predict putative disease genes in a directed signaling network. 


PMID- 25462328
TI  - Inferring biological basis about psychrophilicity by interpreting the rules generated from the correctly classified input instances by a classifier.
AB  - Organisms thriving at extreme cold surroundings are called as psychrophiles and they present a wealth of knowledge about sequence adjustments in proteins that had occurred during the adaptation to low temperatures. In this paper, we propose a new cascading model to investigate the basis for psychrophilicity. In this model, a superior classifier was used to discriminate psychrophilic from mesophilic protein sequences, and then the PART rule generating algorithm was applied on the input instances that are correctly classified by the classifier, to generate human interpretable rules. These derived rules were further validated on a structural dataset and finally analyzed to discover the underlying biological basis about the psychrophilicity. In this study, we have used one of the key features of psychrophilic proteins accountable for remaining functional in extreme cold temperature surroundings i.e., global patterns of amino acid composition as the input features. The rotation forest classifier outperformed all the other classifiers with maximum accuracy of 70.5% and maximum AUC of 0.78. The effect of sequence length on the classification accuracy was also investigated. The analysis of the derived rules and interpretation of the analyzed results had revealed some interesting phenomena such as the amino acids A, D, G, F, and S are over-represented, and T is under-represented in psychrophilic proteins. These findings augment the existing domain knowledge for psychrophilic sequence features. 


PMID- 25462329
TI  - Identification of miR159s and their target genes and expression analysis under drought stress in potato.
AB  - The MYB proteins comprise one of the largest families of plant transcription factors (TFs) and many of MYB families, which play essential roles in plant growth, development and respond to environmental stresses, and have yet been identified in plant. Previous research has shown that miR159 family members repressed the conserved plant R2R3 MYB domain TFs in model plants. In the present research, we identified three potato novel miR159 family members named as stu-miR159a, stu-miR159b and stu-miR159c based on bioinformatics analysis. Target prediction showed that they have a bite sit on the three GAMyb-like genes (StGAMyb-like1, StGAMyb-like2.1 and StGAMyb-like2.2) of potato. Those GAMyb-like genes also have been selected and cloned from potato, which belong to R2R3 MYB domain TFs. We further measured expressional levels of stu-miR159s and potato GAMyb-like genes during the different periods of drought treated samples using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). The results showed that they had a opposite expression pattern, briefly, three stu-miR159 members showed similar expressional trends which were significantly decreased expression after experiencing 25 days of drought stress treatment, while the potato GAMyb-like family members were greatly increased. Therefore, we suggested that stu-miR159s negatively regulated the expression of potato GAMyb-like genes which responsible for drought stress. The findings can facilitate functional studies of miRNAs in plants and provide molecular evidence for involvement process of drought tolerance in potato. 


PMID- 25462330
TI  - Disruption of murine Tcte3-3 induces tissue specific apoptosis via co-expression of Anxa5 and Pebp1.
AB  - Programmed cell death or apoptosis plays a vital physiological role in the development and homeostasis. Any discrepancy in apoptosis may trigger testicular and neurodegenerative diseases, ischemic damage, autoimmune disorders and many types of cancer. Tcte3 (T-complex testis expressed 3) is an accessory component of axonemal and cytoplasmic dynein which expresses predominantly in meiotic and postmeiotic germ cells. It plays an essential role during spermatogenesis; however, to explore its diverse and complex functioning in male germ cell apoptosis, requires further prosecution. Here, 2D-gel electrophoresis, mass spectrometry and qRT-PCR analyses were performed to elucidate the differential expression of genes, in both wild-type and homozygous Tcte3-3 mice. We observed an increased expression of Tcte3 in homozygotes as compared to wild-type testes. Perpetually, an increased expression of Anxa5 and Pebp1, while a lower expression of Rsph1 was detected in Tcte3-3-/- mice. We propose that over-expression of Pebp1 and Anxa5 in Tcte3-3-/- testes might be due to increased apoptosis. To evaluate this possibility, testes specific microarray data set extracted from NCBI gene ontology omnibus (GEO) was used to cluster the possible co-expression partners of Tcte3. Further functional coherence of compiled candidate genes was monitored computationally by studying the common TFBS overlapped at the regulatory regions. Differential expression of Tcte3-3 and its involvement in apoptosis may provide a basis for the investigation of transcriptional specificities of other Tcte3 paralogs (Tcte3-1 and Tcte3-2). A complete understanding of controlling factors which have implications in regulating tissue-specific Tcte3 expression would provide additional insights into the gene control events. The collective knowledge may prove useful for the development of novel therapeutic regimen and would open new avenues in defining selective roles of Tcte3 in germ cell development. 


PMID- 25462331
TI  - How do the protonation states of E296 and D312 in OmpF and D299 and D315 in homologous OmpC affect protein structure and dynamics? Simulation studies.
AB  - In this study, the structural and dynamic properties of two major porins (OmpF and OmpC) in Escherichia coli are investigated using molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Both porins have the extracellular loop L3 folded halfway through the pore to form a constriction area. The solute influx and efflux are controlled by the L3 movement. E296 and D312 in OmpF and homologous D299 and D315 in OmpC located on the barrel wall are found to play a key role in L3 gating activity. All possible charged states of both E296(D299) and D312(315) are applied in this study to observe changes in overall structure and especially L3 movement. The results show that different protonation states of both residues cause the large-scale deviations in structure and pore cavity especially in OmpF. Fully charged E296(D299) and D312(315) increase the protein flexibility significantly. Deprotonating at least one of E296(D299) and D312(315) helps to fasten L3 to the barrel wall and maintain pore size. Lacking of interactions with D312(315) can lead to the pore closure in OmpF. Comparing with OmpC, not only is OmpF less stable, but it is also more sensitive to the charge states of both E296(D299) and D312(315). 


PMID- 25462332
TI  - Computational analysis of 3'UTR region of CASP3 with respect to miRSNPs and SNPs in targetting miRNAs.
AB  - Apoptosis is a strictly organized course which keeps the healthy survival/death equilibrium. Disregulation in apoptosis may lead autoimmunity or cancer, but increased apoptosis can lead degenerative diseases. Studies during the last several years have identified numerous affected miRNAs in association with apoptosis, their target genes and biological functions, and possible drug interventions. Polymorphisms in miRNA genes or miRNA target sites (miRSNPs) can modify miRNA action. While polymorphisms in miRNA genes are relatively rare, SNPs in miRNA-binding sites in target genes are more frequent. Several studies have shown that SNPs in miRNA target sites enhance or weaken the interaction between miRNA and its target transcripts and are associated with cancers and other diseases. We aimed to identify miRSNPs on executioner caspase, CASP3 gene (caspase-3) and SNPs in miRNA genes targeting 3'UTR of CASP3 and assessing the impact of these miRSNPs and SNPs of miRNA genes targeting 3'UTR of CASP3 with respect to apoptosis. We identified 89 different miRNA binding sites (for 43 different miRNAs) and 16 different SNPs in binding sites of miRNA in the 3'UTR of the CASP3 gene. Also, 2 SNPs (rs372435266 and rs190144655) were found on this miRNA' genomic sequence. One of them crossmatched with a SNP in the 3'UTR of CASP3 that we found formerly. This miRNA was miR-4802-3p. Besides, miR-4802-3p targets three other apoptosis related genes, XIAP, IL1A and SOX2. This means that miR-4802-3p may also have a critical effect on apoptosis via different pathways other than caspase-3. We can therefore conclude that this is the first study proving a strong association between miR-4802-3p and apoptosis upon computational targetting analysis. 


PMID- 25462334
TI  - Three-dimensional protein structure prediction: Methods and computational strategies.
AB  - A long standing problem in structural bioinformatics is to determine the three-dimensional (3-D) structure of a protein when only a sequence of amino acid residues is given. Many computational methodologies and algorithms have been proposed as a solution to the 3-D Protein Structure Prediction (3-D-PSP) problem. These methods can be divided in four main classes: (a) first principle methods without database information; (b) first principle methods with database information; (c) fold recognition and threading methods; and (d) comparative modeling methods and sequence alignment strategies. Deterministic computational techniques, optimization techniques, data mining and machine learning approaches are typically used in the construction of computational solutions for the PSP problem. Our main goal with this work is to review the methods and computational strategies that are currently used in 3-D protein prediction. 


PMID- 25462333
TI  - Metabolic network motifs can provide novel insights into evolution: The evolutionary origin of Eukaryotic organelles as a case study.
AB  - Phylogenetic trees are typically constructed using genetic and genomic data, and provide robust evolutionary relationships of species from the genomic point of view. We present an application of network motif mining and analysis of metabolic pathways that when used in combination with phylogenetic trees can provide a more complete picture of evolution. By using distributions of three-node motifs as a proxy for metabolic similarity, we analyze the ancestral origin of Eukaryotic organelles from the metabolic point of view to illustrate the application of our motif mining and analysis network approach. Our analysis suggests that the hypothesis of an early proto-Eukaryote could be valid. It also suggests that a delta- or epsilon-Proteobacteria may have been the endosymbiotic partner that gave rise to modern mitochondria. Our evolutionary analysis needs to be extended by building metabolic network reconstructions of species from the phylum Crenarchaeota, which is considered to be a possible archaeal ancestor of the eukaryotic cell. In this paper, we also propose a methodology for constructing phylogenetic trees that incorporates metabolic network signatures to identify regions of genomically-estimated phylogenies that may be spurious. We find that results generated from our approach are consistent with a parallel phylogenetic analysis using the method of feature frequency profiles. 


PMID- 25462335
TI  - On the modelling and analysis of the regulatory network of dengue virus pathogenesis and clearance.
AB  - Dengue virus can ignite both protective and pathogenic responses in human. The pathogenesis is related with modified functioning of our immune system during infection. Pattern recognition receptors like Toll like receptor 3 is vital for the induction of innate immunity in case of Dengue infection. Toll like receptor 3 induces TRIF mediated activation of Type 1 interferons and Fc receptor mediated induction of cytokines. Interferons have been related with clearance of Dengue virus but it has adopted modified regulatory mechanisms to counter this effect. SOCS protein is also induced due to the interferon and cytokine mediated signalling which can subsequently play its part in the regulation of interferon and cytokine production. Our hypothesis in this study relates the pathogenesis of Dengue virus with the SOCS mediated inhibition of our innate immunity. We used the qualitative formalism of Rene Thomas to model the biological regulatory network of Toll like receptor 3 mediated signalling pathway in an association with pathogenesis of dengue. Logical parameters for the qualitative modelling were inferred using a model checking approach implemented in SMBioNet. A linear hybrid model, parametric linear hybrid automaton, was constructed to incorporate the activation and inhibition time delays in the qualitative model. The qualitative model captured all the possible expression dynamics of the proteins in the form of paths, some of which were observed as abstract cycles (representing homoeostasis) and diverging paths towards stable states. The analysis of the qualitative model highlighted the importance of SOCS protein in elevating propagation of dengue virus through inhibition of type 1 interferons. Detailed qualitative analysis of regulatory network endorses our hypothesis that elevated levels of cytokine subsequently induce SOCS expression which in turn results into the continuous down-regulation of Toll like receptor 3 and interferon. This may result into the Dengue pathogenesis during the stage of immunosuppression. Further analysis with HyTech (HYbrid TECHnology) tool provided us with the real-time constraints (delay constraints) of the proteins involved in the cyclic paths of the regulatory network backing the evidence provided by the qualitative analysis. The HyTech results also suggest that the role of SOCS is vital in homoeostasis. 


PMID- 25462336
TI  - Seeding-inspired chemotaxis genetic algorithm for the inference of biological systems.
AB  - A large challenge in the post-genomic era is to obtain the quantitatively dynamic interactive information of the important constitutes of underlying systems. The S-system is a dynamic and structurally rich model that determines the net strength of interactions between genes and/or proteins. Good generation characteristics without the need for prior information have allowed S-systems to become one of the most promising canonical models. Various evolutionary computation technologies have recently been developed for the identification of system parameters and skeletal-network structures. However, the gaps between the truncated and preserved terms remain too small. Additionally, current research methods fail to identify the structures of high dimensional systems (e.g., 30 genes with 1800 connections). Optimization technologies should converge fast and have the ability to adaptively adjust the search. In this study, we propose a seeding-inspired chemotaxis genetic algorithm (SCGA) that can force evolution to adjust the population movement to identify a favorable location. The seeding-inspired training strategy is a method to achieve optimal results with limited resources. SCGA introduces seeding-inspired genetic operations to allow a population to possess competitive power (exploitation and exploration) and a winner-chemotaxis-induced population migration to force a population to repeatedly tumble away from an attractor and swim toward another attractor. SCGA was tested on several canonical biological systems. SCGA not only learned the correct structure within only one to three pruning steps but also ensures pruning safety. The values of the truncated terms were all smaller than 10-14, even for a thirty-gene system. 


PMID- 25462337
TI  - Docking assay of small molecule antivirals to p7 of HCV.
AB  - Protein p7 of HCV is a 63 amino acid channel forming membrane protein essential for the progression of viral infection. With this momentousness, p7 emerges as an important target for antiviral therapy. A series of small molecule drugs, such as amantadine, rimantadine, amiloride, hexamethylene amiloride, NN-DNJ and BIT225 have been found to affect the channel activity. These compounds are docked against monomeric and hexameric structures of p7 taken at various time steps from a molecular dynamics simulation of the protein embedded in a hydrated lipid bilayer. The energetics of binding identifies the guanidine based ligands as the most potent ligands. The adamantanes and NN-DNJ show weaker binding energies. The lowest energy poses are those at the site of the loop region for the monomer and hexamer. For the latter, the poses show a tendency of the ligand to face the lumen of the pore. The mode of binding is that of a balance between hydrophobic interactions and hydrogen bond formation with backbone atoms of the protein. 


PMID- 25462338
TI  - Involvement of non-polyalanine (polyA) residues in aggregation of polyA proteins: Clue for inhibition of aggregation.
AB  - Presence of polyalanine (polyA) stretches in some proteins is found to be associated with their aggregation, which causes disorders in various developmental processes. In this work, inherent propensities towards aggregation of some residues, which are not part of the polyA stretches, have been identified by using the primary sequences of seven polyA proteins with the help of Betascan, PASTA and Tango programs and explored unambiguously. This provides a basis for proposing molecular mechanism of this type of aggregation. Reported suppression of aggregation of polyA proteins by chaperones like HSP40 and HSP70 is substantiated through molecular docking. The hydrophobic residues of identified aggregating region are found to be interacting with hydrophobic surface of chaperones. This suggests a crucial clue for possible way to inhibit the aggregation of such proteins. 


PMID- 25462339
TI  - Predicting protein-RNA interaction amino acids using random forest based on submodularity subset selection.
AB  - Protein-RNA interaction plays a very crucial role in many biological processes, such as protein synthesis, transcription and post-transcription of gene expression and pathogenesis of disease. Especially RNAs always function through binding to proteins. Identification of binding interface region is especially useful for cellular pathways analysis and drug design. In this study, we proposed a novel approach for binding sites identification in proteins, which not only integrates local features and global features from protein sequence directly, but also constructed a balanced training dataset using sub-sampling based on submodularity subset selection. Firstly we extracted local features and global features from protein sequence, such as evolution information and molecule weight. Secondly, the number of non-interaction sites is much more than interaction sites, which leads to a sample imbalance problem, and hence biased machine learning model with preference to non-interaction sites. To better resolve this problem, instead of previous randomly sub-sampling over-represented non-interaction sites, a novel sampling approach based on submodularity subset selection was employed, which can select more representative data subset. Finally random forest were trained on optimally selected training subsets to predict interaction sites. Our result showed that our proposed method is very promising for predicting protein-RNA interaction residues, it achieved an accuracy of 0.863, which is better than other state-of-the-art methods. Furthermore, it also indicated the extracted global features have very strong discriminate ability for identifying interaction residues from random forest feature importance analysis. 


PMID- 25462340
TI  - A novel k-word relative measure for sequence comparison.
AB  - In order to extract phylogenetic information from DNA sequences, the new normalized k-word average relative distance is proposed in this paper. The proposed measure was tested by discriminate analysis and phylogenetic analysis. The phylogenetic trees based on the Manhattan distance measure are reconstructed with k ranging from 1 to 12. At the same time, a new method is suggested to reduce the matrix dimension, can greatly lessen the amount of calculation and operation time. The experimental assessment demonstrated that our measure was efficient. What's more, comparing with other methods' results shows that our method is feasible and powerful for phylogenetic analysis. 


PMID- 25462341
TI  - Attenuation of vesicular stomatitis virus infection of brain using antiviral drugs and an adeno-associated virus-interferon vector.
AB  - Vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) shows promise as a vaccine-vector and oncolytic virus. However, reports of neurotoxicity of VSV remain a concern. We compared 12 antiviral compounds to control infection of VSV-CT9-M51 and VSV-rp30 using murine and human brain cultures, and in vivo mouse models. Inhibition of replication, cytotoxicity and infectivity was strongest with ribavirin and IFN-alpha and to some extent with mycophenolic acid, chloroquine, and adenine 9-beta-d-arabinofuranoside. To generate continuous IFN exposure, we made an adeno-associated virus vector expressing murine IFN; AAV-mIFN-beta protected mouse brain cells from VSV, as did a combination of IFN, ribavirin and chloroquine. Intracranial AAV-mIFN-beta protected the brain against VSV-CT9-M51. In SCID mice bearing human glioblastoma, AAV-mIFN-beta moderately enhanced survival. VSV-CT9-M51 doubled median survival when administered after AAV-mIFN-beta; some surviving mice showed complete tumor destruction. Together, these data suggest that AAV-IFN or IFN with ribavirin and chloroquine provide an optimal anti-virus combination against VSV in the brain.  


PMID- 25462342
TI  - SHAPE analysis of the RNA secondary structure of the Mouse Hepatitis Virus 5' untranslated region and N-terminal nsp1 coding sequences.
AB  - SHAPE technology was used to analyze RNA secondary structure of the 5' most 474 nts of the MHV-A59 genome encompassing the minimal 5' cis-acting region required for defective interfering RNA replication. The structures generated were in agreement with previous characterizations of SL1 through SL4 and two recently predicted secondary structure elements, S5 and SL5A. SHAPE provided biochemical support for four additional stem-loops not previously functionally investigated in MHV. Secondary structure predictions for 5' regions of MHV-A59, BCoV and SARS-CoV were similar despite high sequence divergence. The pattern of SHAPE reactivity of in virio genomic RNA, ex virio genomic RNA, and in vitro synthesized RNA was similar, suggesting that binding of N protein or other proteins to virion RNA fails to protect the RNA from reaction with lipid permeable SHAPE reagent. Reverse genetic experiments suggested that SL5C and SL6 within the nsp1 coding sequence are not required for viral replication.  


PMID- 25462343
TI  - Sequence variation of koala retrovirus transmembrane protein p15E among koalas from different geographic regions.
AB  - The koala retrovirus (KoRV), which is transitioning from an exogenous to an endogenous form, has been associated with high mortality in koalas. For other retroviruses, the envelope protein p15E has been considered a candidate for vaccine development. We therefore examined proviral sequence variation of KoRV p15E in a captive Queensland and three wild southern Australian koalas. We generated 163 sequences with intact open reading frames, which grouped into 39 distinct haplotypes. Sixteen distinct haplotypes comprising 139 of the sequences (85%) coded for the same polypeptide. Among the remaining 23 haplotypes, 22 were detected only once among the sequences, and each had 1 or 2 non-synonymous differences from the majority sequence. Several analyses suggested that p15E was under purifying selection. Important epitopes and domains were highly conserved across the p15E sequences and in previously reported exogenous KoRVs. Overall, these results support the potential use of p15E for KoRV vaccine development.  


PMID- 25462345
TI  - Structural characterization of the HSP70 interaction domain of the hepatitis C viral protein NS5A.
AB  - We previously identified the NS5A/HSP70 binding site to be a hairpin moiety at C-terminus of NS5A domain I and showed a corresponding cyclized polyarginine-tagged synthetic peptide (HCV4) significantly blocks virus production. Here, sequence comparison confirmed five residues to be conserved. Based on NS5A domain I crystal structure, Phe171, Val173, and Tyr178 were predicted to form the binding interface. Substitution of Phe171 and Val173 with more hydrophobic unusual amino acids improved peptide antiviral activity and HSP70 binding, while similar substitutions at Tyr178 had a negative effect. Substitution of non-conserved residues with arginines maintained antiviral activity and HSP70 binding and dispensed with polyarginine tag for cellular entry. Peptide cyclization improved antiviral activity and HSP70 binding. The cyclic retro-inverso analog displayed the best antiviral properties. FTIR spectroscopy confirmed a secondary structure consisting of an N-terminal beta-sheet followed by a turn and a C-terminal beta-sheet. These peptides constitute a new class of anti-HCV compounds. 


PMID- 25462346
TI  - Woodchuck hepatitis virus core antigen-based DNA and protein vaccines induce qualitatively different immune responses that affect T cell recall responses and antiviral effects.
AB  - T helper type 1 (Th1) immunity was considered to play a dominant role in viral clearance of hepadnaviral infection. However, pre-primed Th2 type responses were able to efficiently control hepadnaviral infection in animal models. We investigated how pre-primed Th1/2 responses control hepadnaviral replication using the newly established mouse models. DNA (pWHcIm, pCTLA-4-C) and protein vaccines based on the nucleocapsid protein (WHcAg) of woodchuck hepatitis virus (WHV) primed specific immune responses with distinct features. The pre-primed responses determined the characteristics of recall responses if challenged with a WHcAg-expressing adenoviral vector. Vaccination with pWHcIm and pCTLA4-C facilitated viral control in the hydrodynamic injection model and reduced WHV loads by about 3 and 2 logs in WHV-transgenic mice, respectively, despite of different kinetics of specific CD8+ T cell responses. Thus, pre-primed Th2-biased responses facilitate the development of CD8+ T cell responses in mice compared with naive controls and thereby confer better viral control. 


PMID- 25462344
TI  - Infection of monkeys by simian-human immunodeficiency viruses with transmitted/founder clade C HIV-1 envelopes.
AB  - Simian-human immunodeficiency viruses (SHIVs) that mirror natural transmitted/founder (T/F) viruses in man are needed for evaluation of HIV-1 vaccine candidates in nonhuman primates. Currently available SHIVs contain HIV-1 env genes from chronically-infected individuals and do not reflect the characteristics of biologically relevant HIV-1 strains that mediate human transmission. We chose to develop clade C SHIVs, as clade C is the major infecting subtype of HIV-1 in the world. We constructed 10 clade C SHIVs expressing Env proteins from T/F viruses. Three of these ten clade C SHIVs (SHIV KB9 C3, SHIV KB9 C4 and SHIV KB9 C5) replicated in naive rhesus monkeys. These three SHIVs are mucosally transmissible and are neutralized by sCD4 and several HIV-1 broadly neutralizing antibodies. However, like natural T/F viruses, they exhibit low Env reactivity and a Tier 2 neutralization sensitivity. Of note, none of the clade C T/F SHIVs elicited detectable autologous neutralizing antibodies in the infected monkeys, even though antibodies that neutralized a heterologous Tier 1 HIV-1 were generated. Challenge with these three new clade C SHIVs will provide biologically relevant tests for vaccine protection in rhesus macaques.  


PMID- 25462347
TI  - RAB1A promotes Vaccinia virus replication by facilitating the production of intracellular enveloped virions.
AB  - Vaccinia virus (VACV) is a large double-stranded DNA virus with a complex cytoplasmic replication cycle that exploits numerous cellular proteins. This work characterises the role of a proviral cellular protein, the small GTPase RAB1A, in VACV replication. Using siRNA, we identified RAB1A as required for the production of extracellular enveloped virions (EEVs), but not intracellular mature virions (IMVs). Immunofluorescence and electron microscopy further refined the role of RAB1A as facilitating the wrapping of IMVs to become intracellular enveloped virions (IEVs). This is consistent with the known function of RAB1A in maintenance of ER to Golgi transport. VACV can therefore be added to the growing list of viruses which require RAB1A for optimal replication, highlighting this protein as a broadly proviral host factor. 


PMID- 25462348
TI  - Ectromelia virus encodes an anti-apoptotic protein that regulates cell death.
AB  - Apoptosis serves as a powerful defense against damaged or pathogen-infected cells. Since apoptosis is an effective defense against viral infection, many viruses including poxviruses, encode proteins to prevent or delay apoptosis. Here we show that ectromelia virus, the causative agent of mousepox encodes an anti-apoptotic protein EVM025. Here we demonstrate that expression of functional EVM025 is crucial to prevent apoptosis triggered by virus infection and staurosporine. We demonstrate that the expression of EVM025 prevents the conformational activation of the pro-apoptotic proteins Bak and Bax, allowing the maintenance of mitochondrial membrane integrity upon infection with ECTV. Additionally, EVM025 interacted with intracellular Bak. We were able to demonstrate that EVM025 ability to inhibit Bax activation is a function of its ability to inhibit the activity of an upstream BH3 only protein Bim. Collectively, our data indicates that EVM025 inhibits apoptosis by sequestering Bak and inhibiting the activity of Bak and Bax. 


PMID- 25462350
TI  - Tetherin restricts HSV-2 release and is counteracted by multiple viral glycoproteins.
AB  - Tetherin has been defined as a restriction factor of HIV-1 and several other enveloped viruses. However, the significance of tetherin in viral infection remains to be further addressed. Here, we investigated whether tetherin plays a role in HSV-2 infection. Our study revealed that overexpression of tetherin restricted the release of HSV-2 into the extracellular medium, while knockdown of tetherin by siRNA enhanced its release. We further demonstrated that HSV-2 infection and viral glycoproteins gB, gD, gH and gL but not gM significantly downregulated the endogenous expression of tetherin. Additional study indicated that tetherin likely physically interacted with gB, gD, gH and gL. This is the first time that tetherin has been shown to be counteracted by multiple viral components of a virus. Our findings inform the complexity of HSV-2-host interactions, providing basis for understanding the role of tetherin as a viral restriction factor and the mechanisms underlying viral countermeasures.  


PMID- 25462349
TI  - An MHC class I immune evasion gene of Marek's disease virus.
AB  - Marek's disease virus (MDV) is a widespread alpha-herpesvirus of chickens that causes T cell tumors. Acute, but not latent, MDV infection has previously been shown to lead to downregulation of cell-surface MHC class I (Virology 282:198-205 (2001)), but the gene(s) involved have not been identified. Here we demonstrate that an MDV gene, MDV012, is capable of reducing surface expression of MHC class I on chicken cells. Co-expression of an MHC class I-binding peptide targeted to the endoplasmic reticulum (bypassing the requirement for the TAP peptide transporter) partially rescued MHC class I expression in the presence of MDV012, suggesting that MDV012 is a TAP-blocking MHC class I immune evasion protein. This is the first unique non-mammalian MHC class I immune evasion gene identified, and suggests that alpha-herpesviruses have conserved this function for at least 100 million years. 


PMID- 25462351
TI  - Mutations altering the gammaretrovirus endoproteolytic motif affect glycosylation of the envelope glycoprotein and early events of the virus life cycle.
AB  - Previously, we found that mutation of glutamine to proline in the endoproteolytic cleavage signal of the PERV-C envelope (RQKK to RPKK) resulted in non-infectious vectors. Here, we show that RPKK results in a non-infectious vector when placed in not only a PERV envelope, but also the envelope of a related gammaretrovirus, FeLV-B. The amino acid substitutions do not prevent envelope precursor cleavage, viral core and genome assembly, or receptor binding. Rather, the mutations result in the formation of hyperglycosylated glycoprotein and a reduction in the reverse transcribed minus strand synthesis and undetectable 2-LTR circular DNA in cells exposed to vectors with these mutated envelopes. Our findings suggest novel functions associated with the cleavage signal sequence that may affect trafficking through the glycosylation machinery of the cell. Further, the glycosylation status of the envelope appears to impact post-binding events of the viral life cycle, either membrane fusion, internalization, or reverse transcription.  


PMID- 25462352
TI  - Poor growth of human adenovirus-12 compared to adenovirus-2 correlates with a failure to impair PKR activation during the late phase of infection.
AB  - Human adenovirus type 12 (HAdV-12) displays a relatively low virulence and slow replication in cultured human cells, which is manifested by premature death of HAdV-12-infected cells. Whereas HAdV-2 induction of IFN-beta expression was transient, HAdV-12-infected cells maintained high levels of IFN-beta expression, protein kinase R (PKR) activation and eIF-2alpha phosphorylation throughout the infectious cycle. The importance of the IFN-inducible PKR kinase in restriction of HAdV-12 was supported by the enhanced growth of the virus following PKR knockdown in HeLa cells. Ectopic expression of HAdV-2 VA RNAI increased HAdV-12 hexon protein expression, suggesting that insufficient VA RNA expression contributes to the restricted growth of HAdV-12. Although some adenovirus species are known to persist in human lymphoid tissues, HAdV12 has so far not been found. Thus, it is possible that the inability of HAdV12 to evade the INF response may have implications for the virus to establish long-lasting or persistent infections.  


PMID- 25462353
TI  - Attenuation of monkeypox virus by deletion of genomic regions.
AB  - Monkeypox virus (MPXV) is an emerging pathogen from Africa that causes disease similar to smallpox. Two clades with different geographic distributions and virulence have been described. Here, we utilized bioinformatic tools to identify genomic regions in MPXV containing multiple virulence genes and explored their roles in pathogenicity; two selected regions were then deleted singularly or in combination. In vitro and in vivo studies indicated that these regions play a significant role in MPXV replication, tissue spread, and mortality in mice. Interestingly, while deletion of either region led to decreased virulence in mice, one region had no effect on in vitro replication. Deletion of both regions simultaneously also reduced cell culture replication and significantly increased the attenuation in vivo over either single deletion. Attenuated MPXV with genomic deletions present a safe and efficacious tool in the study of MPX pathogenesis and in the identification of genetic factors associated with virulence.  


PMID- 25462354
TI  - The interaction between the hepatitis C proteins NS4B and NS5A is involved in viral replication.
AB  - Hepatitis C virus (HCV) replicates in membrane associated, highly ordered replication complexes (RCs). These complexes include viral and host proteins necessary for viral RNA genome replication. The interaction network among viral and host proteins underlying the formation of these RCs is yet to be thoroughly characterized. Here, we investigated the association between NS4B and NS5A, two critical RC components. We characterized the interaction between these proteins using fluorescence resonance energy transfer and a mammalian two-hybrid system. Specific tryptophan residues within the C-terminal domain (CTD) of NS4B were shown to mediate this interaction. Domain I of NS5A, was sufficient to mediate its interaction with NS4B. Mutations in the NS4B CTD tryptophan residues abolished viral replication. Moreover, one of these mutations also affected NS5A hyperphosphorylation. These findings provide new insights into the importance of the NS4B-NS5A interaction and serve as a starting point for studying the complex interactions between the replicase subunits.  


PMID- 25462355
TI  - Comparative live bioluminescence imaging of monkeypox virus dissemination in a wild-derived inbred mouse (Mus musculus castaneus) and outbred African dormouse (Graphiurus kelleni).
AB  - Monkeypox virus belongs to the orthopoxvirus genus, infects rodents and monkeys in Africa, produces a smallpox-like zoonotic disease in humans, and has the potential for global spread and exploitation for bioterrorism. Several small animal models for studying monkeypox virus pathogenesis have been investigated. The African dormouse is a candidate natural host but is outbred and no immunological reagents exist. Although not a natural host, the CAST/EiJ mouse is inbred and animals and reagents are commercially available. We compared the dissemination of monkeypox virus by bioluminescence imaging in CAST/EiJ mice and dormice. In CAST/EiJ mice, intense replication occurred at the intranasal site of inoculation and virus spread rapidly to lungs and abdominal organs, which had a lower virus burden. Compared to CAST/EiJ mice, dormice exhibited a greater variation of virus spread, a slower time course, less replication in the head and chest, and more replication in abdominal organs prior to death. 


PMID- 25462356
TI  - Identification and characterization of an emerging small ruminant lentivirus circulating recombinant form (CRF).
AB  - The molecular epidemiology of small ruminant lentiviruses (SRLVs) is constantly changing due to animal movements, cross species transmission and because of their rapid evolutionary rate. This study reports a comprehensive genetic and phylogenetic analysis based on consensus gag and pol sequences covering 3kb of the SRLV genome from small ruminants in Quebec, Canada. A group of strains obtained from goats originating from different flocks, segregated in a unique clade distinct from currently known SRLV groups. Genetic dissection of the gag gene from these strains revealed that it originated as a result of a recombination event between parental strains currently circulating in small ruminants of the country. Following HIV nomenclature, we propose to call this group of strains, circulating recombinant form 1 SRLV, or CRF01_AB SRLV. In addition, the study confirms the existence of genetically distinct and homogeneous populations of SRLVs infecting sheep and goats housed in single species flocks.  


PMID- 25462357
TI  - On the isobaric space of 25-hydroxyvitamin D in human serum: potential for interferences in liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry, systematic errors and accuracy issues.
AB  - RATIONALE: Isobaric interferences in human serum can potentially influence the measured concentration levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D], when low resolving power liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) instruments and non-specific MS/MS product ions are employed for analysis. In this study, we provide a detailed characterization of these interferences and a technical solution to reduce the associated systematic errors. METHODS: Detailed electrospray ionization Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance (FTICR) high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS) experiments were used to characterize co-extracted isobaric components of 25(OH)D from human serum. Differential ion mobility spectrometry (DMS), as a gas-phase ion filter, was implemented on a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer for separation of the isobars. RESULTS: HRMS revealed the presence of multiple isobaric compounds in extracts of human serum for different sample preparation methods. Several of these isobars had the potential to increase the peak areas measured for 25(OH)D on low-resolution MS instruments. A major isobaric component was identified as pentaerythritol oleate, a technical lubricant, which was probably an artifact from the analytical instrumentation. DMS was able to remove several of these isobars prior to MS/MS, when implemented on the low-resolution triple quadrupole mass spectrometer. CONCLUSIONS: It was shown in this proof-of-concept study that DMS-MS has the potential to significantly decrease systematic errors, and thus improve accuracy of vitamin D measurements using LC/MS/MS. 


PMID- 25462358
TI  - Knudsen cell mass spectrometry using restricted molecular beam collimation. I. Optimization of the beam from the vaporizing surface.
AB  - RATIONALE: This study analyzes molecular beam sampling by mass spectrometry by the Knudsen method using the so-called " restricted collimation device" . This device, defined by the field and source apertures, was proposed in order to eliminate any additional contribution to the genuine molecular beam of surface vaporizations coming from the vicinity of the effusion orifice as usually detected by the ion source of a mass spectrometer. METHODS: The molecular transmission of the " restricted collimation device" was calculated using a vaporization law under vacuum taking into account the real surface where the molecules are emitted, i.e., the sample evaporation surface in the Knudsen cell or the effusion orifice section, towards the ion source inlet by integration of elementary solid angles. RESULTS: An optimum is observed depending on the pair of selected apertures that define the restricted collimation device, i.e., the field and source apertures. This optimum is different from that previously calculated when taking into account only the solid angle, as defined by the restricted collimation device. CONCLUSIONS: This difference is attributed to the previously approximate assumption that optimizing the restricted collimation solid angle automatically optimizes the sampling of the effused beam included in the restricted collimation angle. Moreover, the location of the evaporating surface for molecules traveling through the collimation device towards the ionization chamber remains an important factor: the distance between the sample evaporation surface and the field aperture is of paramount importance as it changes the molecular transmission to the mass spectrometer or to any target collection device in the conventional Knudsen method. 


PMID- 25462359
TI  - Rapid detection and isotopic measurement of discrete inorganic samples using acoustically actuated droplet ejection and extractive electrospray ionization mass spectrometry.
AB  - RATIONALE: The rapid detection, screening, and isotopic signature analysis of inorganics provide invaluable information for a variety of applications including explosive device detection, nuclear forensics, and environmental monitoring. The coupling of ultrasonic nebulization and extractive electrospray ionization (EESI) enabled the mass spectrometric (MS) detection and analysis of inorganics from microliter sample solution aliquots. METHODS: Ultrasonic nebulization and acoustic pressure wave focusing within an array of exponential horn structures were utilized for the efficient atomization of discrete liquid samples ranging in volume from 3 MUL to 10 MUL pipetted aliquots. In conjunction with an electro-flow focusing source for extractive electrospray ionization (EESI), in-source collision-induced dissociation (CID) was utilized to enhance inorganic detection through fragmentation of adducts and reduction in chemical noise from organic compounds. RESULTS: The investigated system enhanced detection of the singly charged elemental cation species and provided accurate measurements of isotopic distributions for a number of metal ions. The extent of CID demonstrated the competition between ligand loss from hydrate clusters and charge reduction from the doubly charged to singly charged cations for the alkaline earth metal ions of strontium and barium. Inorganics were also detected from complex matrices, including synthetic fingerprint material and sediment, without detriment to device operation. CONCLUSIONS: The described system provides a versatile tool for the rapid detection, speciation, and isotopic identification of inorganic compounds at nanogram to sub-nanogram levels from microliter aliquots. Published in 2014. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public domain in the USA. 


PMID- 25462360
TI  - New insights into dissociation of deprotonated 2,4-dinitrotoluene by combined high-resolution mass spectrometry and density functional theory calculations.
AB  - RATIONALE: 2,4-Dinitrotoluene (2,4-DNT) is a nitroaromatic explosive which is commonly found in environmental samples close to training points, firing places, and manufacturers. Mass spectrometry analysis of this compound shows one main product ion that distinguishes it from the other isomers of DNT. We present here a detailed mechanistic study on the formation of this ion. METHODS: 2,4-DNT was analyzed using negative electrospray ionization high-resolution mass spectrometry (ESI-HRMS) using a linear ion trap quadrupole LTQ-Orbitrap XL mass spectrometer. Collision-induced dissociation (CID) experiments were performed on the [M-H](-) ion obtained. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations were used to support experimental observations. RESULTS: Fragmentation of deprotonated 2,4-DNT [M-H](-) (m/z 181) yields a main product ion at m/z 116. The mechanism of formation of this diagnostic product ion is not obvious and it has never been rationalized. Calculations were performed to probe different mechanistic variants, which are discussed in this work. CONCLUSIONS: Analysis of possible pathways to form the m/z 116 ion from the m/z 181 precursor shows that its formation is likely to proceed first via NO(*) loss, followed by eliminations of H2 O and then HO(*) . 


PMID- 25462361
TI  - The benefits and limitations of reaction cell and sector field inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry in the detection and quantification of phosphopeptides.
AB  - RATIONALE: The phosphorylation of proteins is one of the most important post-translational modifications in nature. Knowledge of the quantity or degree of protein phosphorylation in biological samples is extremely important. A combination of liquid chromatography (LC) and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) allows the absolute and relative quantification of the phosphorus signal. METHODS: A comparison between dynamic reaction cell quadrupole ICP-MS (DRC-Q-ICP-MS) and high-resolution sector field ICP-MS (SF-ICP-MS) in detecting signals of phosphorus-containing species using identical capillary LC (reversed-phase technology) and nebulizer settings was performed. RESULTS: A method to diminish the reversed-phase gradient-related signal instability in phosphorus detection with LC/ICP-MS applications was developed. Bis(4-nitrophenyl)phosphate (BNPP) was used as a standard to compare signal-to-noise ratios and limits of detection (LODs) between the two instrumental setups. The LOD reaches a value of 0.8 ug L(-1) when applying the DRC technology in Q-ICP-MS and an LOD of 0.09 ug L(-1) was found with the SF-ICP-MS setup. This BNPP standard was further used to compare the absolute quantification possibilities of phosphopeptides in these two setups. CONCLUSIONS: This one-to-one comparison of two interference-reducing ICP-MS instruments demonstrates that absolute quantification of individual LC-separated phosphopeptides is possible. However, based on the LOD values, SF-ICP-MS has a higher sensitivity in detecting phosphorus signals and thus is preferred in phosphopeptide analysis. 


PMID- 25462362
TI  - Efficient coupling of nanosecond laser pulses with the cluster medium: Generation of hydrogen-like [C](5+) atomic ions.
AB  - RATIONALE: Clusters exhibit diverse photochemical behavior as a function of laser parameters, i.e. wavelength, pulse duration and intensity. One such aspect of cluster photochemistry is the generation of energetic multiply charged atomic ions, upon efficient interaction of clusters with intense laser pulses. In the present work, mass spectrometric investigations have been carried out on clusters of tetrahydrofuran (THF, C4 H8 O) - a saturated cyclic ether - subjected to nanosecond laser pulse (spanning from UV to IR wavelength range) with the aim of shedding light on the complex mechanism of laser-cluster interactions, which is still ambiguous. METHODS: THF clusters, generated via supersonic expansion of room-temperature THF vapours seeded in argon, were subjected to gigawatt intensity laser pulses (355, 532 and 1064 nm) obtained from a nanosecond Nd:YAG laser. The ions generated upon laser-cluster interaction were characterized using a time-of-flight mass spectrometer. RESULTS: At 355 nm, THF clusters exhibit the usual multiphoton dissociation/ionization behavior while, at 532 nm, observation of multiply charged atomic ions of carbon (up to [C](4+) ) and oxygen (up to [O](3+) ) was ascribed to Coulomb explosion of THF clusters. For studies carried out at 1064 nm, multiply charged atomic ions of carbon up to [C](5+) having an ionization energy of ~392 eV were observed, at a laser intensity of 10(10) W/cm(2) . CONCLUSIONS: The observation of [C](5+) atomic ions signifies efficient coupling of the laser energy with the cluster medium, using a nanosecond laser pulse. The results have been rationalized on the basis of a three-stage cluster ionization mechanism, suggesting the crucial role of the threshold laser intensity for initiating ionization within the cluster and generation of optimum charge centers for efficient extraction of energy from the laser pulse. 


PMID- 25462363
TI  - Development of methodology for the determination of carbon isotope ratios using gas chromatography/combustion/isotope ratio mass spectrometry and applications in the biodegradation of phenolic brominated flame retardants and their degradation products.
AB  - RATIONALE: Compound-specific stable carbon isotope analysis of phenolic brominated flame retardants (BFRs) and bisphenol A (BPA) has proven informative to discriminate their source and fate apportionment in the environment. However, because these compounds contain highly polar functional groups and exist as complex mixtures in environment matrices, derivatization is a necessary step, which adds additional non-analyte carbon atoms for analyses and may alter the original stable carbon isotope ratio. It is, therefore, imperative to gain an insight into the relationship between the delta(13) C values of the BFRs and BPA derivatives and those of underivatized BFRs and BPA. METHODS: The delta(13) C values of BFRs and BPA N,O-bis(trimethylsilyl)trifluoroacetamide (BSTFA) derivatives were measured by gas chromatography/combustion/isotope ratio mass spectrometry (GC/C/IRMS). The delta(13) C values of the BSTFA reagent and the standard underivatized BFRs and BPA were determined using elemental analyzer/isotope ratio mass spectrometry (EA/IRMS). The experimentally obtained delta(13) C values for BFRs and BPA derivatives were then compared with the theoretically calculated values. RESULTS: The derivatization process introduces no isotopic fractionation for BFRs and BPA (the average difference between the theoretically calculated and experimentally obtained delta(13) C values was 0.06 +/- 0.150/00, within the precision limits of the GC/C/IRMS measurements). Therefore, the delta(13) C values for the original underivatized BFRs and BPA were computed through a mass balance equation. CONCLUSIONS: This work offers a novel tool to research the biotic or abiotic transformation processes of BFRs and BPA in the environment and will offer a perspective for the identification of the environmental source and fate of these organic compounds. 


PMID- 25462364
TI  - Urine analysis concerning xenon for doping control purposes.
AB  - RATIONALE: On September 1(st) 2014, a modified Prohibited List as established by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) became effective featuring xenon as a banned substance categorized as hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) activator. Consequently, the analysis of xenon from commonly provided doping control specimens such as blood and urine is desirable, and first data on the determination of xenon from urine in the context of human sports drug testing, are presented. METHODS: In accordance to earlier studies utilizing plasma as doping control matrix, urine was enriched to saturation with xenon, sequentially diluted, and the target analyte was detected as supported by the internal standard d6 -cyclohexanone by means of gas chromatography/triple quadrupole mass spectrometry (GC/MS/MS) using headspace injection. Three major xenon isotopes at m/z 128.9, 130.9 and 131.9 were targeted in (pseudo) selected reaction monitoring mode enabling the unambiguous identification of the prohibited substance. Assay characteristics including limit of detection (LOD), intraday/interday precision, and specificity as well as analyte recovery under different storage conditions were determined. Proof-of-concept data were generated by applying the established method to urine samples collected from five patients before, during and after (up to 48 h) xenon-based general anesthesia. RESULTS: Xenon was traceable in enriched human urine samples down to the detection limit of approximately 0.5 nmol/mL. The intraday and interday imprecision values of the method were found below 25%, and specificity was demonstrated by analyzing 20 different blank urine samples that corroborated the fitness-for-purpose of the analytical approach to unequivocally detect xenon at non-physiological concentrations in human urine. The patients' urine specimens returned 'xenon-positive' test results up to 40 h post-anesthesia, indicating the limits of the expected doping control detection window. CONCLUSIONS: Since xenon has been considered a prohibited substance according to WADA regulations in September 2014, its analysis from common specimens of routine sports drug testing is desirable. In previous studies, its traceability in whole blood and plasma was shown, and herein a complementary approach utilizing doping control urine samples for the GC/MS/MS analysis of xenon was reported. 


PMID- 25462365
TI  - Remote laser ablation electrospray ionization mass spectrometry for non-proximate analysis of biological tissues.
AB  - RATIONALE: We introduce remote laser ablation electrospray ionization (LAESI), a novel, non-proximate ambient sampling technique. Remote LAESI allows additional analytical instrumentation to be incorporated during sample analysis. This work demonstrates the utility of remote LAESI and, when combined with optical microscopy, allows for the microscopy-guided sampling of biological tissues. METHODS: Rapid prototyping using a 3D printer was applied to produce various ablation chamber geometries. A focused 5 ns, 2.94 um laser pulse kept at 10 Hz ablated the sample within the chamber, remote to the mass spectrometer inlet. Ablated particulates were carried through a transfer tube by N2 gas, delivered to the electrospray plume and ionized. A long-distance microscope was used to capture images of tissues before, during and after ablation. RESULTS: Optimized remote LAESI was found to have a 27% transport efficiency compared with conventional LAESI, sufficient for many applications. A comparable molecular coverage was obtained with remote LAESI for the analysis of plant tissue. Proof-of-principle experiments using a pansy flower and a maple leaf indicated the functionality of this approach for selecting domains of interest for analysis by optical microscopy and obtaining chemical information from those selected regions by remote LAESI-MS. CONCLUSIONS: Remote LAESI is an ambient non-proximate sampling technique, proven to detect metabolites in biological tissues. When combined with optical microscopy, remote LAESI allows for the simultaneous acquisition of morphological and chemical information. This technique has important implications for histology, where chemical information for specific locations within a tissue is critical. 


PMID- 25462366
TI  - Gas-phase reactions of alcohols with hexamethylene triperoxide diamine (HMTD) under atmospheric pressure chemical ionization conditions.
AB  - RATIONALE: Hexamethylene triperoxide diamine (HMTD) is a sensitive peroxide explosive first synthesized in 1885. HMTD exhibits an unusual gas-phase phenomenon in the presence of alcohols that has been previously observed, but incorrectly resolved. We are attempting to determine this specific mechanism. METHODS: We used positive ion mode atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI) as the interface to the mass spectrometer. HMTD was infused with various solvents including (18) O- and (2) H-labeled methanol in order to determine gas-phase reaction mechanisms. RESULTS: Based on these labeled experiments, it was determined that, under APCI conditions, the alcohol oxygen attacks a methylene carbon of HMTD and releases H2 O2 . This was attempted with nine different alcohols and, in each case, the alcohol is fully incorporated into the molecule with the peroxide release. A mechanism for this reaction has been proposed. CONCLUSIONS: This work appears to have confirmed the gas-phase reaction mechanism of HMTD with alcohols. As we continue efforts to characterize this unusual molecule, the information may prove useful in determining formation and degradation mechanism(s). In addition, this property of HMTD may find use in other fields of science. 


PMID- 25462367
TI  - Headspace quantification of pure and aqueous solutions of binary mixtures of key volatile organic compounds in Swiss cheeses using selected ion flow tube mass spectrometry.
AB  - RATIONALE: Twelve volatile organic compounds (VOCs) have recently been identified as key compounds in Swiss cheese with split defects. It is important to know how these VOCs interact in binary mixtures and if their behavior changes with concentration in binary mixtures. METHODS: Selected ion flow tube mass spectrometry (SIFT-MS) was used for the headspace analysis of VOCs commonly found in Swiss cheeses. Headspace (H/S) sampling and quantification checks using SIFT-MS and further linear regression analyses were carried out on twelve selected aqueous solutions of VOCs. Five binary mixtures of standard solutions of VOCs were also prepared and the H/S profile of each mixture was analyzed. RESULTS: A very good fit of linearity for the twelve VOCs (95% confidence level) confirms direct proportionality between the H/S and the aqueous concentration of the standard solutions. Henry's Law coefficients were calculated with a high degree of confidence. SIFT-MS analysis of five binary mixtures showed that the more polar compounds reduced the H/S concentration of the less polar compounds, while the addition of a less polar compound increased the H/S concentration of the more polar compound. CONCLUSIONS: In the binary experiment, it was shown that the behavior of a compound in the headspace can be significantly affected by the presence of another compound. Thus, the matrix effect plays a significant role in the behavior of molecules in a mixed solution. 


PMID- 25462368
TI  - Gas chromatography with parallel hard and soft ionization mass spectrometry.
AB  - RATIONALE: Mass spectrometric identification of compounds in chromatography can be obtained from molecular masses from soft ionization mass spectrometry techniques such as field ionization (FI) and fragmentation patterns from hard ionization techniques such as electron ionization (EI). Simultaneous detection by EI and FI mass spectrometry allows alignment of the different information from each method. METHODS: We report the construction and characteristics of a combined instrument consisting of a gas chromatograph and two parallel mass spectrometry ionization sources, EI and FI. When considering both ion yield and signal-to-noise it was postulated that good-quality EI and FI mass spectra could be obtained simultaneously using a post-column splitter with a split fraction of 1:10 for EI/FI. This has been realised and we report its application for the analysis of several complex mixtures. RESULTS: The differences between the full width at half maximum (FWHM) of the EI and FI chromatograms were statistically insignificant, and the retention times of the chromatograms were highly correlated (r(2) =0.9999) with no detectable bias. The applicability and significance of this combined instrument and the attendant methodology are illustrated by the analysis of standard samples of 13 compounds with diverse structures, and the analysis of mixtures of fatty acids, fish oil, hydrocarbons and yeast metabolites. CONCLUSIONS: This combined dual-source instrument saves time and resources, and more importantly generates equivalent chromatograms aligned in time, in EI and FI (i.e. peaks with similar shapes and identical positions). The identical FWHMs and retention times of the EI and FI chromatograms in this combined instrument enable the accurate assignment of fragment ions from EI to their corresponding molecular ions in FI. 


PMID- 25462369
TI  - Reactive paper spray mass spectrometry for in situ identification of quinones.
AB  - RATIONALE: The polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons quinones are reported to be harmful and could cause mutations and cancer via the generation of reactive oxygen species through their redox cycle in human body. For detection by gas chromatography and high-performance liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (MS), sample pretreatments and chromatographic separation prior to MS are generally required, which makes the whole analytical process laborious and time-consuming, resulting in difficulties for fast screening targets from complicated matrices. Thus facile, rapid and reliable MS methods for detection of quinones in complicated matrices are in great demand. METHODS: Reactive paper spray mass spectrometry is reported for rapid identification and quantification of quinones in complicated matrices. The method is based on an in situ derivatization reaction between cysteamine and quinones prior to analysis with paper spray mass spectrometry. With the addition of an easily charged chemical tag, the ionization efficiency of analysts is greatly improved. Due to the high ionization efficiency of the drivatives, quinones in complicated matrices could be detected rapidly without any pretreatment. RESULTS: Under the optimized experimental conditions, the linear dynamic ranges for both 1,4-benzoquinone and 1,4-naphthoquinone are 0.4-40 ng and that for 1,4-anthraquinone is 0.4-20 ng. Limits of detection for these three analytes were measured to be 160, 40 and 200 pg using methyl-p-benzoquinone as internal standard. The capability to conduct MS analysis under ambient pressure is illustrated by identification of 1,4-naphthoquinone and 1,4-anthraquinone in raw urine, raw serum and cell culture medium. CONCLUSIONS: Reactive paper spray could be applied to fast screening of quinones from complicated matrices. Therefore, we believe that reactive paper spray mass spectrometry might be potentially useful in the fields of environmental sciences, metabolomics and clinic analysis. 


PMID- 25462370
TI  - Calcined bone provides a reliable substrate for strontium isotope ratios as shown by an enrichment experiment.
AB  - RATIONALE: Strontium isotopes ((87) Sr/(86) Sr) are used in archaeological and forensic science as markers of residence or mobility because they reflect the local geological substrate. Currently, tooth enamel is considered to be the most reliable tissue, but it rarely survives heating so that in cremations only calcined bone fragments survive. We set out to test the proposition that calcined bone might prove resistant to diagenesis, given its relatively high crystallinity, as the ability to measure in vivo (87) Sr/(86) Sr from calcined bone would greatly extend application to places and periods in which cremation was the dominant mortuary practice, or where unburned bone and enamel do not survive. METHODS: Tooth enamel and calcined bone samples were exposed to a (87) Sr-spiked solution for up to 1 year. Samples were removed after various intervals, and attempts were made to remove the contamination using acetic acid washes and ultrasonication. (87) Sr/(86) Sr was measured before and after pre-treatment on a Nu Plasma multi-collector induced coupled plasma mass spectrometer using NBS987 as a standard. RESULTS: The strontium isotopic ratios of all samples immersed in the spiked solution were strongly modified showing that significant amounts of strontium had been adsorbed or incorporated. After pre-treatment the enamel samples still contained significant amounts of (87) Sr-enriched contamination while the calcined bone fragments did not. CONCLUSIONS: The results of the artificial enrichment experiment demonstrate that calcined bone is more resistant to post-mortem exchange than tooth enamel, and that in vivo strontium isotopic ratios are retained in calcined bone. 


PMID- 25462371
TI  - Detection of (135) Cs by accelerator mass spectrometry.
AB  - RATIONALE: The ability to measure both (135) Cs and (137) Cs can provide an estimate of the age and source of Cs isotopes in an environmental sample. Accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS) consistently reports lower abundance sensitivities than other techniques and, with the addition of an on-line reaction cell, simpler isobaric suppression. Therefore, an AMS methodology was developed to measure Cs isotopes using CsF2- as the initial anion. METHODS: The ion beam is passed through the Isobar Separator for Anions (ISA) where it is captured by radiofrequency quadrupoles in a gas cell before injection into the tandem accelerator. In the ISA, the beam reacts with O2 gas, selectively removing the BaF2- and leaving the Cs analyte to be reaccelerated and sent through the remainder of the AMS system. RESULTS: The BaF2- signal was attenuated by a factor of 10(5) in the ISA while 25% of the original CsF2- current was transmitted into the accelerator. (135) Cs was measured without any interference from (133) Cs to an abundance sensitivity of 1.3 * 10(-10) . The abundances of four stable Ba isotopes (masses 133, 134, 135 and 137) were measured and no isotope-dependent bias was detected using the ISA in vacuum. CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrate the feasibility of measuring long-lived Cs isotopes without Ba interference by AMS with on-line isobar separation and the ability to use shorter lived Cs isotopes for yield tracing. 


PMID- 25462372
TI  - Comparison of peak-picking workflows for untargeted liquid chromatography/high-resolution mass spectrometry metabolomics data analysis.
AB  - RATIONALE: Data analysis is a key step in mass spectrometry based untargeted metabolomics, starting with the generation of generic peak lists from raw liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS) data. Due to the use of various algorithms by different workflows, the results of different peak-picking strategies often differ widely. METHODS: Raw LC/HRMS data from two types of biological samples (bile and urine), as well as a standard mixture of 84 metabolites, were processed with four peak-picking softwares: Peakview(r), MarkerviewTM, MetabolitePilotTM and XCMS Online. The overlaps between the results of each peak-generating method were then investigated. To gauge the relevance of peak lists, a database search using the METLIN online database was performed to determine which features had accurate masses matching known metabolites as well as a secondary filtering based on MS/MS spectral matching. RESULTS: In this study, only a small proportion of all peaks (less than 10%) were common to all four software programs. Comparison of database searching results showed peaks found uniquely by one workflow have less chance of being found in the METLIN metabolomics database and are even less likely to be confirmed by MS/MS. CONCLUSIONS: It was shown that the performance of peak-generating workflows has a direct impact on untargeted metabolomics results. As it was demonstrated that the peaks found in more than one peak detection workflow have higher potential to be identified by accurate mass as well as MS/MS spectrum matching, it is suggested to use the overlap of different peak-picking workflows as preliminary peak lists for more rugged statistical analysis in global metabolomics investigations. 


PMID- 25462373
TI  - Impact of data-dependent exclusion list based mass spectrometry on label-free proteomic quantification.
AB  - RATIONALE: Spectral count analysis via data-dependent acquisition (DDA) mode mass spectrometry is used as label-free protein quantification. However, combination of the DDA mode with exclusion list based DDA (DDA-EL) for the similar purpose has not yet been tested. Therefore, we have taken the initiative to check the protein abundance using DDA-EL and measured their suitability. METHODS: To check the protein abundance correlation between different samples, multiple replicates of mass spectrometric analysis of peptides were conducted primarily in DDA mode. Subsequently, peptides were analyzed in multiple replicates in DDA-EL mode with an exclusion mass list prepared from the previous DDA analyses. The normalized spectral abundance factor (NSAF) for each identified protein was compared among replicated datasets of single DDA, DDA-EL, merged two DDAs, and merged DDA + DDA-EL or between different types of datasets. RESULTS: A strong and linear NSAF correlation with an average correlation coefficient of 0.939 was observed in the comparison between each pair of DDA data. Similar connotation was also monitored in the comparison among DDA-EL data (r =0.928) or among merged DDA + DDA-EL data (r =0.960) while a reduced correlation coefficient (r =0.892) with increased deviation was marked between DDA and DDA-EL data. CONCLUSIONS: Evaluation of protein abundance patterns from different cellular states can successfully be conducted by DDA-EL-based mass spectrometric analysis. Therefore, the new workflow, DDA-EL merged to DDA mode, is a potential alternative to protein identification and quantification method. 


PMID- 25462374
TI  - Automated annotation and quantitation of glycans by liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization mass spectrometric analysis using the MultiGlycan-ESI computational tool.
AB  - RATIONALE: Liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS) is currently considered to be a conventional glycomics analysis strategy due to the high sensitivity and ability to handle complex biological samples. Interpretation of LC/MS data is a major bottleneck in high-throughput glycomics LC/MS-based analysis. The complexity of LC/MS data associated with biological samples prompts the needs to develop computational tools capable of facilitating automated data annotation and quantitation. METHODS: An LC/MS-based automated data annotation and quantitation software, MultiGlycan-ESI, was developed and utilized for glycan quantitation. Data generated by the software from LC/MS analysis of permethylated N-glycans derived from fetuin were initially validated by manual integration to assess the performance of the software. The performance of MultiGlycan-ESI was then assessed for the quantitation of permethylated fetuin N-glycans analyzed at different concentrations or spiked with permethylated N-glycans derived from human blood serum. RESULTS: The relative abundance differences between data generated by the software and those generated by manual integration were less than 5%, indicating the reliability of MultiGlycan-ESI in quantitation of permethylated glycans analyzed by LC/MS. Automated quantitation resulted in a linear relationship for all six N-glycans derived from 50 ng to 400 ng fetuin with correlation coefficients (R(2) ) greater than 0.93. Spiking of permethylated fetuin N-glycans at different concentrations in permethylated N-glycan samples derived from a 0.02 MUL of HBS also exhibited linear agreement with R(2) values greater than 0.9. CONCLUSIONS: With a variety of options, including mass accuracy, merged adducts, and filtering criteria, MultiGlycan-ESI allows automated annotation and quantitation of LC/ESI-MS N-glycan data. The software allows the reliable quantitation of glycan LC/MS data. The software is reliable for automated glycan quantitation, thus facilitating rapid and reliable high-throughput glycomics studies. 


PMID- 25462376
TI  - Visible spectroscopy on carcass fat combined with chemometrics to distinguish pasture-fed, concentrate-fed and concentrate-finished pasture-fed lambs.
AB  - We used visible spectroscopy of fat to discriminate lambs that were pasture-fed (n=76), concentrate-fed (n=79) or concentrate-finished after pasture-feeding (n=69). The reflectance spectrum of perirenal and subcutaneous caudal fat was measured at slaughter and 24h post mortem. In Method 1 (W450-510), the optical data were used at wavelengths in the range of 450-510nm to calculate an index quantifying light absorption by carotenoids. In Method 2 (W400-700), the full set of data at wavelengths in the range of 400-700nm was used to differentiate carcasses using PLS-DA as a classification method. W400-700 proved more reliable than W450-510 (P<0.0001). The proportion of correctly classified lambs using W400-700 was 95.6% and 95.9% for measurements made on perirenal fat at slaughter and 24h post mortem. The intensity of light absorption by carotenoids decreased exponentially with live weight gain during the finishing period.  


PMID- 25462375
TI  - The MC4R c.893G>A mutation: a marker for growth and leanness associated with boar taint odour in Belgian pig breeds.
AB  - Since surgical castration of male piglets without anaesthesia is under heavy societal pressure, finding a sustainable solution to reduce boar taint has become urgent. One way to circumvent this animal welfare violation is raising entire male pigs whilst selecting against the tainted phenotype through marker-assisted selection. Since slaughtering at a lower weight is often suggested to reduce boar taint, selection using a marker for that trait could be a promising strategy. Therefore, in this study a melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) mutation, frequently described in different pig breeds as marker for fat content, weight gain and feed intake, was examined in relation to boar taint in pig breeds used in Belgian pig farms. Although results suggest an association between this mutation and a boar taint odour score assigned by experts, no association was found between the mutation and the concentration of the individual chemical boar taint components androstenone, skatole and indole.  


PMID- 25462377
TI  - Resting of MAP (modified atmosphere packed) beef steaks prior to cooking and effects on consumer quality.
AB  - This study investigated the meat preparation effects prior to cooking on the sensory consumer quality of modified atmosphere (MA) packed (100ml CO2/100ml pack gas, 50ml O2:20ml CO2:30ml N2/100ml pack gas, 70ml O2:30ml CO2/100ml pack gas and 80ml O2:20ml CO2/100ml pack gas) striploin beef steak. Beef steaks were stored at 4 degrees C for 7days (616lx) to simulate retail display conditions and tested by consumers (n=40) for appearance, liking of flavour, overall acceptability, juiciness, tenderness, oxidation flavour, off-flavour, and sourness of the resulting cooked meat. Additionally, TVC, pH, colour, drip loss, and cooking loss were measured. One steak from each of the experimental treatments was taken immediately from the respective MA packs and cooked before serving straight to consumers. A second steak from each pack was treated similarly, but left in ambient air for 30min prior to cooking and serving. Consumers perceived cooked steak from samples left for 30min prior to cooking as significantly (P<0.05) less sour tasting than those cooked immediately.  


PMID- 25462378
TI  - Nutritional properties and consumer evaluation of donkey bresaola and salami: comparison with conventional products.
AB  - Nutritional properties and consumer evaluation were performed in bresaola and salami from donkey meat compared with respective conventional products. Donkey bresaola and salami showed higher content of protein and lower content of fat than beef bresaola and pork salami. Significant differences in the unsaturation level of fatty acids were found. Particularly, donkey meat products showed lower saturated fatty acids, higher polyunsatured fatty acid content and better nutritional indices than conventional beef bresaola and pork salami. Furthermore, donkey meat products, especially bresaola, showed the highest content of essential amino acids. Both donkey meat products resulted to be more tender than conventional products, in addition donkey bresaola showed also higher consumer acceptability. Our investigation demonstrates the possibility of processing donkey meat into products comparable to traditional ones with a high nutritional value.  


PMID- 25462379
TI  - Effect of frozen storage, different thawing methods and cooking processes on the survival of Salmonella spp. and Escherichia coli O157:H7 in commercially shaped beef patties.
AB  - The effect of common handling practices (i.e., freezing, thawing and cooking) of beef patties on the survival of Salmonella spp. and Escherichia coli O157:H7, was evaluated. Inoculated ground beef was stored at -22  degrees C for 5 and 75 days. After thawing at 4  degrees C/16 h, 20  degrees C/12 h, in microwave/22-24 min, or without prior thawing, beef patties (90 g) were shaped and cooked in oven-broiler or in pan-grill to internal temperatures of 60  degrees C or 71  degrees C. Cooking in oven-broiler was more effective compared to pan-grill, especially when cooked to 71  degrees C. Defrosting methods did not affect significantly (P >= 0.05) the survival of the pathogens during subsequent cooking. Frozen storage for 75 days enhanced the survival of E. coli O157:H7, as the pathogen survived 3.1 logCFU/g when cooked in oven-broiler at 71  degrees C. Results may supplement the existing guidelines for the appropriate practices, associated with freezing, thawing and cooking of patties in households or catering services.  


PMID- 25462380
TI  - Effect of packaging technology on microbiological and sensory quality of a cooked blood sausage, Morcela de Arroz, from Monchique region of Portugal.
AB  - Morcela de Arroz (MA), a popular Portuguese blood sausage, with high pH and water activity (aw), is traditionally commercialized without preservatives and unpacked. This study evaluated the best packaging solution to extend MA shelf life stored at 4+/-1 degrees C for 44days: without packaging (WP), vacuum (VP) and modified atmosphere packaging (MAP) (80% CO2; 20% N2). Mesophilic (MTVC), psychrotrophic (PTVC), lactic acid bacteria (LAB), pseudomonads, molds and yeasts, Enterobacteriaceae, Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella spp., Bacillus cereus, Clostridium perfringens, sensory properties, pH, moisture and aw were studied. Moisture and aw decreased (p<0.05) in WP. pH decreased in WP and MAP during storage. MTVC and PTVC counts increased to values around 7logCFU/g at 44days of storage. LAB and Enterobacteriaceae counts were higher (p<0.05) in VP. Pseudomonads were inhibited (p<0.05) by MAP after 8days of storage. Sensory parameters were affected (p<0.05) by packaging and storage time. Globally, MAP performed better.  


PMID- 25462381
TI  - Effects of vacuum packaging conditions on the quality, biochemical changes and the durability of ostrich meat.
AB  - In this study, the effects of vacuum packaging conditions on the concentrations of lactic acid, malondialdehyde, pH, microbial and sensory analysis were determined during chilled storage of ostrich meat. Meat was packed as follows: vacuum packed from 1st day (VP-1), vacuum packed from 3rd day (VP-3) and non-vacuum packed (NVP). Analysis were performed at 1st, 7th, 14th, 21st day after slaughter. Meat consisted of 74.69% water, 2.29% fats, 20.95% proteins. Package conditions had significant effect on the pH (NVP: 6.54 on the 14th day, VP-1: 6.05 and VP-3: 6.07 on the 21th day p<0.001), amount of malondialdehyde (NVP: 8.62mg/kg on the 14th day; VP-1: 1.95 and VP-3: 2.55 on the 21th day; p<0.001) and total microbial count (NVP: 7.4 log CFU/g on the 14th day; VP-1: 6.7 and VP-3: 6.8 on the 21th day p<0.01). Based on these results we can assess that vacuum packed from 1st day is necessary for the 21 days storage of ostrich meat. 


PMID- 25462382
TI  - Comparison of whole carcass condemnation and partial carcass condemnation data for integration in a national syndromic surveillance system: the Swiss experience.
AB  - We obtained partial carcass condemnation (PCC) data for cattle (2009-2010) from a Swiss slaughterhouse. Data on whole carcass condemnations (WCC) carried out at the same slaughterhouse over those years were extracted from the national database for meat inspection. We found that given the differences observed in the WCC and PCC time series, it is likely that both indicators respond to different health events in the population and that one cannot be substituted by the other. Because PCC recordings are promising for syndromic surveillance, the meat inspection database should be capable to record both WCC and PCC data in the future. However, a standardised list of reasons for PCC needs to be defined and used nationwide in all slaughterhouses.  


PMID- 25462383
TI  - The effects of blast chilling on pork quality.
AB  - The aim of this study was to determine the effects of blast chilling of pig carcasses on the physiochemical and sensory properties of the longissimus lumborum muscle. To this end, right half-carcasses were blast-chilled for 70min at -24 degrees C and then for 22h and 50min at 1 degrees C, while left half-carcasses were chilled conventionally at 1 degrees C for 24h. At 2h and 6h post mortem, blast chilling had significantly reduced the temperature of the carcasses, as well as the rate of pH decrease and the rate of increase in EC. It had no significant effect on the ultimate pH or its range, or on EC at 24h post mortem, but it significantly lowered L*, b*, C* and drip loss compared to the conventionally chilled carcasses. Blast chilling adversely affected sensory characteristics such as tenderness and flavor. There were no significant differences between the effects of blast and conventional chilling systems on meat quality between conformation classes.  


PMID- 25462384
TI  - Glycolytic potential and activity of adenosine monophosphate kinase (AMPK), glycogen phosphorylase (GP) and glycogen debranching enzyme (GDE) in steer carcasses with normal (<5.8) or high (>5.9) 24h pH determined in M. longissimus dorsi.
AB  - Muscle glycogen concentration (MGC) and lactate (LA), activity of glycogen debranching enzyme (GDE), glycogen phosphorylase (GP) and adenosine monophosphate kinase (AMPK) were determined at 0.5h (T0) and 24h (T24) post-mortem in Longissimus dorsi samples from 38 steers that produced high pH (>5.9) and normal pH (<5.8) carcasses at 24h postmortem. MGC, LA and glycolytic potential were higher (P<0.05) in normal pH carcasses. GDE activity was similar (P>0.05) in both pH categories. GP activity increased between T0 and T24 only in normal pH carcasses. AMPK activity was four times higher in normal pH v/s high pH carcasses, without changing its activity over time. Results reinforce the idea that differences in postmortem glycogenolytic/glycolytic flow in L. dorsi of steers showing normal v/s high muscle pH at 24h, could be explained not only by the higher initial MGC in normal pH carcasses, but also by a high and sustained activity of AMPK and an increased GP activity at 24h postmortem.  


PMID- 25462385
TI  - Development of a sensitive and specific multiplex PCR method for the simultaneous detection of chicken, duck and goose DNA in meat products.
AB  - Identifying the origin of animal species in manufactured meat products is of considerable economic, religious and sanitary importance. In this study, we developed a multiplex PCR method to simultaneously detect chicken, duck and goose DNA in meat products derived from beef, pork, mutton or quail. The PCR primers were designed based on the sequence of mitochondrial genes of each avian species, and the amplicon sizes were 131, 283 and 387bp for chicken, duck and goose, respectively. The method had no cross-reaction with DNA isolated from beef, mutton, pork or quail, and generated products at a target DNA content as low as 0.05ng, or a target meat content of 1% of total meat weight. Moreover, screening of 24 commercial meat samples using this method indicated that six, two and one samples were contaminated with chicken, duck, or both, respectively, suggesting its usefulness for the simultaneous identification of chicken, duck and goose DNA in commercial meat products.  


PMID- 25462387
TI  - Visuospatial learning and memory in the Cebus apella and microglial morphology in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus and CA1 lacunosum molecular layer.
AB  - We investigated whether the morphology of microglia in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus (DG-Mol) or in the lacunosum molecular layer of CA1 (CA1-LMol) was correlated with spatial learning and memory in the capuchin monkey (Cebus apella). Learning and memory was tested in 4 monkeys with visuo-spatial, paired associated learning (PAL) tasks from the Cambridge battery of neuropsychological tests. After testing, monkeys were sacrificed, and hippocampi were sectioned. We specifically immunolabeled microglia with an antibody against the adapter binding, ionized calcium protein. Microglia were selected from the middle and outer thirds of the DG-Mol (n=268) and the CA1-LMol (n=185) for three-dimensional reconstructions created with Neurolucida and Neuroexplorer software. Cluster and discriminant analyses, based on microglial morphometric parameters, identified two major morphological microglia phenotypes (types I and II) found in both the CA1-LMol and DG-Mol of all individuals. Compared to type II, type I microglia were significantly smaller, thinner, more tortuous and ramified, and less complex (lower fractal dimensions). PAL performance was both linearly and non-linearly correlated with type I microglial morphological features from the rostral and caudal DG-Mol, but not with microglia from the CA1-LMol. These differences in microglial morphology and correlations with PAL performance were consistent with previous proposals of hippocampal regional contributions for spatial learning and memory. Our results suggested that at least two morphological microglial phenotypes provided distinct physiological roles to learning-associated activity in the rostral and caudal DG-Mol of the monkey brain.  


PMID- 25462386
TI  - Acid-sensing ion channel 1 and nitric oxide synthase are in adjacent layers in the wall of rat and human cerebral arteries.
AB  - Extracellular acidification activates a family of proteins known as acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs). One ASIC subtype, ASIC type 1 (ASIC1), may play an important role in synaptic plasticity, memory, fear conditioning and ischemic brain injury. ASIC1 is found primarily in neurons, but one report showed its expression in isolated mouse cerebrovascular cells. In this study, we sought to determine if ASIC1 is present in intact rat and human major cerebral arteries. A potential physiological significance of such a finding is suggested by studies showing that nitric oxide (NO), which acts as a powerful vasodilator, may modulate proton-gated currents in cultured cells expressing ASIC1s. Because both constitutive NO synthesizing enzymes, neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) and endothelial NOS (eNOS), are expressed in cerebral arteries we also studied the anatomical relationship between ASIC1 and nNOS or eNOS in both rat and human cerebral arteries. Western blot analysis demonstrated ASIC1 in cerebral arteries from both species. Immunofluorescent histochemistry and confocal microscopy also showed that ASIC1-immunoreactivity (IR), colocalized with the smooth muscle marker alpha-smooth muscle actin (SMA), was present in the anterior cerebral artery (ACA), middle cerebral artery (MCA), posterior cerebral artery (PCA) and basilar artery (BA) of rat and human. Expression of ASIC1 in cerebral arteries is consistent with a role for ASIC1 in modulating cerebrovascular tone both in rat and human. Potential interactions between smooth muscle ASIC1 and nNOS or eNOS were supported by the presence of nNOS-IR in the neighboring adventitial layer and the presence of nNOS-IR and eNOS-IR in the adjacent endothelial layer of the cerebral arteries.  


PMID- 25462388
TI  - Depression as a risk factor for overall and hormone-related cancer: the Korean cancer prevention study.
AB  - Depression has been hypothesized to be a risk factor of cancer, especially hormone-related cancers. However, few studies have been conducted with large enough sample size and sufficient follow-up period to rigorously estimate these associations. We aim to examine the relationship between depression and risk of registry-documented overall and hormone-related cancers. In this 19 year prospective cohort study of general population, 601,775 Koreans aged 30-64 years had a biennial medical evaluation by the National Health Insurance Service in either 1992 or 1994. Major and minor depression was ascertained by a 9-item depression questionnaire. At baseline, major depression was identified in 7.4% and 10.2% and minor depression in 19.3% and 21.4% in men and women, respectively. During the follow-up, 49,744 cancers were identified in men and 7860 in women. Prostate cancer in men was positively related to minor depression (HR 1.13, 95% CI 1.05, 1.23), and cervical cancer in women was inversely related to major depression (HR 0.90, 95% CI 0.83, 0.98) after adjusting for potential confounders. Regarding overall cancer, major depression was positively related to overall cancer in men (HR 1.04, 95% CI 1.00, 1.08) and inversely related in women (HR 0.90, 95% CI 0.83, 0.98). There was no association between breast cancer and depression. Different direction and magnitude of association among gender and cancer subtypes suggest different psycho-behavioral and biological pathways in which depression may affect later cancer development. Further studies on the association of depression and cancer and the underlying mechanisms should be conducted on specific cancer subtypes.  


PMID- 25462389
TI  - Association of inflammatory biomarkers with depressive symptoms and cognitive decline in a community-dwelling healthy older sample: a 3-year follow-up study.
AB  - BACKGROUND: The relationship between the pathophysiology of dementia and neuroinflammation is well-known. The number of reports stating that depression is a risk factor for dementia has recently been increasing. These epidemiological findings suggest the possibility that both depression and dementia have common pathophysiological backgrounds of neuroinflammation. METHODS: The sample consists of 64 non-demented community-dwelling older participants aged 65 years or over. Participants were assessed at baseline (2004-2006) and 3 years later (2007-2009). Plasma concentration of markers of inflammation (interleukins (IL)-1beta, IL-2, IL-6, soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R), soluble interleukin-6 receptor (sIL-6R), high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha) were measured at baseline. Depression symptoms were assessed with the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and cognitive decline was assessed with the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), Frontal Assessment Battery (FAB) and Clock Drawing Test (CDT) at baseline and follow-up. All analyses were adjusted for age, gender and years of education. RESULTS: In the cross-sectional analysis, the present study found soluble IL-2 receptor (sIL-2R) to be associated only with the MMSE score at baseline in men. In the longitudinal analysis, none of our inflammatory biomarkers were associated with either depressive symptoms or cognitive decline. LIMITATIONS: The present study consists of small number of participants and body mass index (BMI) scores were not obtained. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that sIL-2R is associated with current cognitive function in men. None of our inflammatory markers predicted future depressive state or cognitive decline in our community-dwelling healthy older sample. 


PMID- 25462391
TI  - Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) is a state biomarker of oxidative stress in bipolar patients in a manic phase.
AB  - OBJECTIVES: Oxidative stress may contribute to the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder. The aim of this study was to investigate the serum levels or activities of oxidative stress markers in bipolar patients in a manic phase, and evaluate the changes in superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), protein carbonyl content (PCC) and 8-hydroxy 2'-deoxyguanosine after treatment (8-OHdG). METHODS: We consecutively enrolled 23 bipolar inpatients in a manic phase and 40 healthy subjects. Serum oxidative stress markers were measured with assay kits. All patients were evaluated by examining the correlation between oxidative stress markers and Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) scores. RESULTS: The serum TBARS levels in bipolar patients in a manic phase were significantly higher than those of healthy subjects (p=0.006), and serum GPx activity was significant lower than that of healthy subjects (p<0.05). The YMRS scores had a significantly positive association with CAT activity and PCC levels (p<0.05) and a negative association with GPx activity (p<0.05). Twenty bipolar patients were followed up, and their oxidative stress markers were measured at the end of treatment. We found significantly decreased changes in TBARS levels only in bipolar manic patients after treatment (p=0.019). LIMITATION: Our sample size was limited. CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that serum TBARS levels might be a state biomarker of oxidative stress in bipolar patients in a manic phase and after treatment. In addition, GPx deficit might be a trait biomarker of severity of mania. 


PMID- 25462390
TI  - Cognitive and family correlates of current suicidal ideation in children with bipolar disorder.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Suicidality among youth with bipolar disorder is an extreme, but largely unaddressed, public health problem. The current study examined the psychosocial characteristics differentiating youth with varying severities of suicidal ideation that may dictate targets for suicide prevention interventions. METHODS: Participants included 72 youth aged 7-13 (M=9.19, SD=1.61) with DSM-IV-TR bipolar I, II, or NOS and a parent/caregiver. Current suicidal ideation and correlates were assessed at intake, including: demographics and clinical factors (diagnosis, symptom severity, psychiatric comorbidity); child factors (cognitive risk and quality of life); and family factors (parenting stress, family cohesion, and family rigidity). RESULTS: Current ideation was prevalent in this young sample: 41% endorsed any ideation, and 31% endorsed active forms. Depression symptoms, quality of life, hopelessness, self-esteem, and family rigidity differentiated youth with increasing ideation severity. Separate logistic regressions examined all significant child- and family-level factors, controlling for demographic and clinical variables. Greater family rigidity and lower self-esteem remained significant predictors of current planful ideation. Diagnosis, index episode, comorbidity, and mania severity did not differentiate non-ideators from those with current ideation. LIMITATIONS: Limitations include the small sample to examine low base-rate severe ideation, cross-sectional analyses and generalizability of findings beyond the outpatient clinical sample. CONCLUSIONS: Findings underscore the importance of assessing and addressing suicidality in preadolescent youth with bipolar disorder, before youth progress to more severe suicidal behaviors. Results also highlight child self-esteem and family rigidity as key treatment targets to reduce suicide risk in pediatric bipolar disorder. 


PMID- 25462392
TI  - Affective temperaments in tango dancers.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Links between affective temperaments and folk culture have been infrequently explored systematically. Creativity and personality and temperament studies, conversely, have reported several associations. Tango is one of the most typical Argentinean folk dance-musical repertoires. The main purpose of this study is to compare affective temperaments between Argentinean professional tango dancers and the general population. METHODS: TEMPS-A was administered to a sample of 63 professional tango dancers and 63 comparison subjects from the general population who did not practice tango. Subscale median scores and total median scores with non-parametric statistics were analyzed. RESULTS: Median scores on hyperthymic subscale (p <= 0.001), irritable subscale (p=0.05) and total median score were significantly higher among tango dancers compared to controls (p <= 0.001). LIMITATIONS: Self-report measures were used. A larger sample size would have provided greater statistical power for data analysis. Besides, the naturalistic study design did not allow controlling for other clinical variables and limited the generalization of results to broader populations. CONCLUSIONS: Our data adds new evidence for the hypothesis that artistic performance is related to one's temperament. Tango passionata, which has both melancholic and vigorous (including "upbeat") features, seems to impart tango dancers' hyperthymic and irritable temperament features. Our study supports the increasing literature on the validity of utilizing temperament as a sub-affective traits in relation to artistic creativity and performing arts. 


PMID- 25462393
TI  - The effectiveness of short- and long-term psychotherapy on personality functioning during a 5-year follow-up.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Only few randomized trials comparing sustained effects of short- and long-term psychotherapies in personality functioning are available. In this study we compared the effects of two short-term therapies and long-term psychodynamic psychotherapy on patients' personality functioning during a 5-year follow-up. METHODS: Altogether 326 patients of the Helsinki Psychotherapy Study, with anxiety or mood disorder, were randomly assigned to either short-term psychotherapy of about six months (solution-focused therapy (SFT, n=97) or short-term psychodynamic psychotherapy (SPP, n=101)), or to long-term psychodynamic psychotherapy (LPP, n=128), lasting on average three years. Outcomes in personality functioning (i.e., self-concept, defense style, interpersonal problems, and level of personality organization) were assessed five to seven times using, respectively, questionnaires (SASB, DSQ, IIP) and interview (LPO) during the 5-year follow-up from randomization. RESULTS: Personality functioning improved in all therapy groups. Both short-term therapies fared better than LPP during the first year of follow-up, by faster improvement in self-concept and decrease in immature defense style. SFT also showed more early reduction of interpersonal problems. However, LPP thereafter showed larger and more sustained benefits than SFT and SPP, through greater changes in self-concept. Additionally, LPP outperformed SFT at the end of the follow-up in IIP and LPO, after adjustment for auxiliary treatment. No differences were noted between the short-term therapies at any measurement point. LIMITATIONS: Auxiliary treatment was used relatively widely which limits generalization to exclusive use of short- or long-term therapy. CONCLUSIONS: LPP seems to be somewhat more effective than short-term therapies in facilitating longterm changes in personality functioning. 


PMID- 25462394
TI  - Temperament and prodromal symptoms prior to first manic/hypomanic episodes: results from a pilot study.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Prodromal symptoms prior to first episode mania/hypomania have been reported. However, the relationship between temperament and manic/hypomanic prodromal symptoms has not been investigated. We hypothesized that subjects scoring higher on cyclothymic and irritable temperament scales show more manic/hypomanic prodromal symptoms. METHOD: Euthymic patients diagnosed with bipolar-I or -II disorder within 8 years underwent retrospective assessments with the Temperament Evaluation of Memphis, Pisa, Paris and San Diego-autoquestionnaire (TEMPS-A) and the Bipolar Prodrome Symptom Scale-Retrospective (BPSS-R). RESULTS: Among 39 subjects (36.1 +/- 9.9 years, females = 59%, bipolar-I = 62%) 100% and 92.3% reported subthreshold mania (mean = 7.4 +/- 2.9) or subthreshold depressive symptoms (mean = 2.4 +/- 1.5), and 87.2% and 43.6% reported general psychopathology (mean = 3.2 +/- 2.0) or subthreshold psychotic symptoms (mean = 0.7 +/- 1.0) prior to their first hypo-/manic episode. Subjects with higher cyclothymic and irritable temperament scores showed more subthreshold symptoms prior to the first manic/hypomanic episode, mainly subthreshold hypo-/manic symptoms (cyclothymic temperament r = 0.430; p = 0.006; irritable temperament r = 0.330; p = 0.040), general psychopathology symptoms (cyclothymic temperament r = 0.316; p = 0.05; irritable temperament r = 0.349; p = 0.029) and subthreshold psychotic symptoms (cyclothymic temperament r = 0.413; p = 0.009). In regression analyses, cyclothymic temperament explained 16.1% and 12.5% of the variance of the BPSS-R total score (p = 0.045) and psychosis subscore (p = 0.029). LIMITATIONS: Retrospective study, no control group, small sample size. CONCLUSION: We present data, which indicate a relationship between cyclothymic and irritable temperament and prodromal symptoms prior to the first manic/hypomanic episode. These findings support the notion that assessing cyclothymic temperament to identify people at-risk of developing bipolar-I and -II disorder may help to increase the predictive validity of applied at-risk criteria. 


PMID- 25462395
TI  - Cortico-limbic network abnormalities in individuals with current and past major depressive disorder.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Brain abnormalities in fronto-temporal structures have been implicated in major depressive disorder (MDD). This study aims to identify their anatomical distribution and their relation to the time course of the disease. METHODS: A whole-brain voxel based morphometry analysis was conducted to assess gray and white matter alterations in 56 participants with a lifetime history of MDD, including currently depressed (cMDD) and remitted patients (rMDD), and 33 matched healthy controls (HC). RESULTS: Compared to HC, MDD participants showed increased white matter volume (WMV) in the uncinate fasciculus (UF) and decreased gray matter density (GMD) on the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC). The increased WMV in UF was driven by both cMDD and rMDD groups and positively correlated with depression scores. The GMD decrease in the vmPFC resulted mainly from abnormalities in rMDD and was not correlated with depression scores. Finally, temporal UF and vmPFC white matter showed strong structural covariance suggesting functional interactions between these two brain regions. LIMITATIONS: The retrospective and cross-sectional design of the study limits the generalizability of the results. Information concerning ongoing treatment did not allow the exploration of interactions between medication and observed abnormalities. The duration of the remission period could have influenced abnormalities in the subgroup of remitted patients. CONCLUSIONS: Fronto-temporal alterations in MDD consist of alterations in a cortico-limbic network involving the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and temporal white matter tracts. State-like abnormalities in the UF survive remission and persist as trait-like abnormalities together with alteration in the vmPFC. 


PMID- 25462396
TI  - Contrasting and convergent patterns of amygdala connectivity in mania and depression: a resting-state study.
AB  - BACKGROUND: wMania and depression in bipolar disorder (BP) manifest two extremes of aberrant emotional, physiologic and behavioral arousal states despite similarities in treatment response and neurocognitive deficits. We used resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI) to explore the common and unique abnormal functional connectivity underlying acute manic or depressed state in BP. METHODS: 18 Patients with bipolar mania (BM), 10 patients with bipolar depression (BD) and 28 healthy controls underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging scanning. Left and right amygdala seed-to-voxel based functional connectivity were assessed and compared among the three groups. The relationships between aberrant functional connectivity and the severity of clinical symptoms, number of episodes, illness duration were investigated. RESULTS: Compared to healthy controls, both BM and BD groups showed reduced functional connectivity between bilateral amygdala and inferior frontal gyrus (orbital), striatum, right lingual gyrus and posterior cerebellar lobe. Furthermore right amygdala-hippocampal connectivity was decreased in BD but increased in BM. No significant correlations were found between strength of abnormal functional connectivity and clinical characteristic in BD or BM. LIMITATIONS: No euthymic subjects were recruited, and the patients in current study were all on medication. CONCLUSIONS: The presence of substantial overlap in the pattern of disturbed connectivity between amygdala and frontal, striatal, lingual and cerebellar regions suggests mood state-independent dysconnectivity. The contrasting pattern of functional connectivity between right amygdala and hippocampus in BD and BM provides a novel lead to the probable mechanistic differences in these two extremes of mood states. 


PMID- 25462397
TI  - When hope and grief intersect: rates and risks of prolonged grief disorder among bereaved individuals and relatives of disappeared persons in Colombia.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Forced disappearance is a frequent phenomenon in violent conflicts and regimes, yet little is known about unresolved grief processes as a possible outcome of the disappearance of a loved one. This study investigates prolonged grief disorder (PGD) and its risk factors in a sample of persons who lost a significant other to disappearance as compared with a sample of bereaved individuals, both groups having experienced displacement due to the armed conflict in Colombia. METHOD: In a cross-sectional study conducted in four Colombian provinces, 73 persons who lost a significant other to disappearance and 222 bereaved individuals completed measures of PGD (PG-13), depression (HSCL-25), and PTSD (PCL-C) via face-to-face interviews. Trauma- and loss-related variables, including the extent to which significant others of disappeared persons hoped that their loved one was still alive, were assessed. RESULTS: Results indicated that 23% of participants who lost a significant other to disappearance met criteria for PGD as compared to 31.5% in bereaved participants. No differences were found between the two groups in terms of symptom severity of PGD, depression, posttraumatic stress disorder, or traumatic exposure. Regression analysis indicated that, among relatives and friends of disappeared persons, the extent of hope predicted PGD above and beyond depression severity whereas among bereaved persons, PGD was predicted by time since the loss, the number of traumatic events and symptom severity of PTSD and depression. LIMITATIONS: The instruments were not validated for use in Colombia; generalizability of findings is limited. CONCLUSION: Forced disappearance is related to prolonged grief reactions, particularly when those left behind maintain hope that the disappeared person is still alive. 


PMID- 25462399
TI  - Prevalence and correlates of major depressive disorder and dysthymia in an eleven-year follow-up--results from the Finnish Health 2011 Survey.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Up-to-date epidemiological data on depressive disorders is needed to understand changes in population health and health care utilization. This study aims to assess the prevalence of major depressive disorder (MDD) and dysthymia in the Finnish population and possible changes during the past 11 years. METHODS: In a nationally representative sample of Finns aged 30 and above (BRIF8901), depressive disorders were diagnosed with the Composite International Diagnostic Interview (M-CIDI) in 2000 and 2011. To account for nonresponse, two methods were compared: multiple imputation (MI) utilizing data from the hospital discharge register and from the interview in 2000 and statistical weighting. RESULTS: The MI-corrected 12-month prevalence of MDD was 7.4% (95% CI 5.7-9.0) and of dysthymia was 4.5% (95% CI 3.1-5.9), whereas the corresponding figures using weights were 5.4% (95% CI 4.7-6.1) for MDD and 2.0% (95% CI 1.6-2.4) for dysthymia. Women (OR 2.33, 95% CI 1.6-3.4) and unmarried people (OR 1.54, 95% CI 1.2-2.0) had a higher risk of depressive disorders. There was a significant increase in the prevalence of depressive disorders during the follow-up period from 7.3% in 2000 to 9.6% in 2011. Prevalences were two percentage points higher, on average, when using MI compared to weighting. Hospital treatments for depressive disorders and other mental disorders were strongly associated with nonparticipation. LIMITATIONS: The CIDI response rate dropped from 75% in 2000 to 57% in 2011, but this was accounted for by MI and weighting. CONCLUSIONS: Depressive disorders are a growing public health concern in Finland. Non-participation of persons with severe mental disorders may bias the prevalence estimates of mental disorders in population-based studies. 


PMID- 25462398
TI  - Perinatal oxytocin increases the risk of offspring bipolar disorder and childhood cognitive impairment.
AB  - BACKGROUND: We tested the hypothesis that perinatal oxytocin, given to pregnant women to induce labor, is related to offspring bipolar disorder (BP) and worse childhood cognitive performance among offspring. We also tested the association between childhood cognition and later BP. METHODS: A population-based birth cohort derived from the Child Health and Development Study (CHDS) which included nearly all pregnant women receiving obstetric care from the Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Plan, Northern California Region (KPNC) between 1959 and 1966. Prospectively obtained medical and offspring cognitive performance were used. Potential cases with BP from the cohort were identified by database linkages. This protocol identified 94 cases who were matched 1:8 to controls. RESULTS: Perinatal oxytocin was associated with a 2.4 times increased odds of later BP. Oxytocin was also associated with decreased performance on the Raven Matrices, but not on the Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test (PPVT). Childhood cognition was not associated with later BP. LIMITATIONS: Loss to follow-up must be considered in all birth cohort studies. In addition, the childhood cognitive battery did not include tests related to multiple domains of cognition which have been associated with later BP. A third limitation is the modest sample size of those exposed to oxytocin. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides evidence for a potentially important perinatal risk factor for BP and cognitive impairment in childhood. While the association between perinatal oxytocin and offspring BP must be viewed cautiously until further studies can attempt to replicate the result, it lends support to the broader view that neurodevelopmental factors contribute to BP. 


PMID- 25462400
TI  - Validity of Gotland Male Depression Scale for male depression in a community study: the Sudurnesjamenn study.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Several studies suggest a "male depressive syndrome", where not only the standard symptoms of major depressive disorder (MDD) but also symptoms of anxiety, anger, irritability and antisocial behaviour are prominent. METHOD: In a community study, 534 males were screened for possible depression by the Gotland Male Depression Scale (GMDS) and Beck's Depression Inventory (BDI). For comparison psychiatrists examined a sub-sample of healthy and depressive males (n=137). The validity of the GMDS was compared both with the BDI and MDD diagnosis according to DSM-IV. RESULTS: GMDS was as good as BDI for screening males. ROC-curve analysis gave AUC 0.945 (95% CI 0.923-0.968) for GMDS when tested against BDI. Second, when both scales were tested by ROC-curves against DSM-IV, the GMDS had AUC=0.861 (95% CI 0.800-0.921) and BDI had AUC=0.822 (95% CI 0.751-0.893). The estimated prevalence was 14-15%. LIMITATIONS: Low participation rate (25%) in the screening phase. CONCLUSION: GMDS is a valid screening tool for detecting male depression (MDD). Furthermore it is a short self-rating scale, easy to use in daily practice to screen for depression. Our results support recent reports of high prevalence of depressions in the community which supports active screening of males in clinical practice. 


PMID- 25462401
TI  - The prevalence and correlates of depression, anxiety, and stress in a sample of college students.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Over the past four years, the Franciscan University Counseling Center has reported a 231% increase in yearly visits, as well as a 173% increase in total yearly clients. This trend has been observed at many universities as mental health issues pose significant problems for many college students. The objective of this study was to investigate potential correlates of depression, anxiety, and stress in a sample of college students. METHODS: The final analyzed sample consisted of 374 undergraduate students between the ages of 18 and 24 attending Franciscan University, Steubenville, Ohio. Subjects completed a survey consisting of demographic questions, a section instructing participants to rate the level of concern associated with challenges pertinent to daily life (e.g. academics, family, sleep), and the 21 question version of the Depression Anxiety Stress Scale (DASS21). RESULTS: The results indicated that the top three concerns were academic performance, pressure to succeed, and post-graduation plans. Demographically, the most stressed, anxious, and depressed students were transfers, upperclassmen, and those living off-campus. CONCLUSIONS: With the propensity for mental health issues to hinder the success of college students, it is vital that colleges continually evaluate the mental health of their students and tailor treatment programs to specifically target their needs. 


PMID- 25462402
TI  - Personality and cognitive vulnerability in remitted recurrently depressed patients.
AB  - INTRODUCTION: Personality disorders (PDs) have been associated with a poor prognosis of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD). The aim of the current study was to examine cognitive vulnerability (i.e., dysfunctional beliefs, extremity of beliefs, cognitive reactivity, and rumination) that might contribute to this poor prognosis of patients with PD comorbidity. METHODS: 309 outpatients with remitted recurrent MDD (SCID-I; HAM-D17 <= 10) were included within two comparable RCTs and were assessed at baseline with the Personality Diagnostic Questionnaire-4(+) (PDQ-4(+)), the Dysfunctional Attitude Scale Version-A (DAS-A), the Leiden Index of Depression Sensitivity (LEIDS), the Ruminative Response Scale (RRS), and the Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology-Self Report (IDS-SR). RESULTS: We found an indication that the PD prevalence was 49.5% in this remitted recurrently depressed sample. Having a PD (and higher levels of personality pathology) was associated with dysfunctional beliefs, cognitive reactivity, and rumination. Extreme 'black and white thinking' on the DAS was not associated with personality pathology. Brooding was only associated with a Cluster C classification (t(308) = 4.03, p < .001) and with avoidant PD specifically (t(308) = 4.82, p < .001), while surprisingly not with obsessive-compulsive PD. LIMITATIONS: PDs were assessed by questionnaire and the analyses were cross-sectional in nature. CONCLUSION: Being the first study to examine cognitive reactivity and rumination in patients with PD and remitted MDD, we demonstrated that even after controlling for depressive symptomatology, dysfunctional beliefs, cognitive reactivity, and rumination were associated with personality pathology. Rumination might be a pathway to relapse for patients with avoidant PD. Replication of our findings concerning cognitive vulnerability and specific PDs is necessary. 


PMID- 25462403
TI  - Reasons and determinants of help-seeking in people with a subclinical depression.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Subclinical depression is common. Although interventions have proven to be effective, participation rates are low. This study first aimed to get more insight in help-seeking and reasons for (not) seeking care. The second aim was to identify characteristics that distinguish people who receive help, those with an unmet need, or no perceived need for care. METHODS: Respondents with a subclinical depression (n=162) were recruited from the general population. They were eligible for participation if they were aged 18 years or older, scored 20 or higher on the K10 screening instrument for depression, and did not meet the criteria for major depression. RESULTS: Of all participants, 27% received help, 33% had an unmet need, and 40% had no perceived need for care. Participants with no perceived need reported not to experience symptoms, were able to solve problems on their own, and could mobilize their own support. They were characterized by lower scores on neuroticism and an older age than those who received care. LIMITATIONS: The response rate in this study was relatively low which may have caused a selection bias. CONCLUSION: Not all people with subclinical depression may need help for their symptoms, some are able to deal with problems on their own. However, others experience a need for care but do not receive any. Gaining insight into potential barriers for help seeking and receiving in people with an unmet need is important so appropriate measures can be taken to ensure that those who need care get the help they want. 


PMID- 25462404
TI  - Self-harm in bipolar disorder: findings from a prospective clinical database.
AB  - BACKGROUND: People with bipolar disorder may be at increased risk of suicidal behaviour but there are few prospective studies of self-harm in this group. Our aim was to describe the characteristics and outcome (in terms of repetition) for individuals with bipolar disorder who presented to hospital following self-harm. METHOD: A nested case-control study was carried out using a large prospective self-harm database (1997-2010) in Manchester, UK. Characteristics of bipolar cases and non-bipolar controls were compared using conditional logistic regression, and outcomes were assessed via survival analyses. RESULTS: Bipolar cases (n=103) were more likely to repeat self-harm than controls (n=515): proportion with at least one repeat episode 58% vs. 25%, HR 3.08 (95% CI; 2.2-4.18). Previous self-harm, unemployment, contact with psychiatric services and sleep disturbance were all more common in cases than controls. Even after adjustment for known risk factors, the risk of repetition remained higher in the bipolar group (adjusted HR 1.68; 95% CI; 1.10-2.56). LIMITATIONS: The study covers cases from hospital sites in Manchester, UK, and therefore only includes self-harm that was serious enough to present at hospital emergency departments. CONCLUSION: People with bipolar disorder who self-harm have a higher risk of repetition than people who self-harm more generally. Adjusting for some known risk factors moderated, but did not abolish, this finding. Other factors, such as impulsivity, may also be important. 


PMID- 25462405
TI  - Prevalence rates and clinical implications of bipolar disorder "with mixed features" as defined by DSM-5.
AB  - BACKGROUND: We investigated the increase in the prevalence of bipolar disorder with mixed features following the replacement of DSM-IV-TR criteria with DSM-5 criteria. Additionally, we examined the clinical implications of the use of "with mixed features" as a specifier with bipolar disorder. METHOD: We retrospectively reviewed medical charts from 2003 to 2013. A total of 331 patients diagnosed with bipolar disorder using the DSM-IV TR were enrolled and categorized into four groups: manic/hypomanic with mixed features, manic/hypomanic without mixed features, depressed with mixed features, and depressed without mixed features. These classifications were made in accordance with the DSM-5 definition of bipolar disorder "with mixed features." Changes in the prevalence, demographic and clinical characteristics were compared among the groups. RESULTS: The prevalence rates of mixed features were significantly different when using the DSM-5 criteria vs. the DSM-IV-TR criteria. Patients with mixed features had a younger age of onset, younger age at hospitalization, more frequent hospitalizations for mixed episodes, and greater suicide risk compared with patients without mixed features. LIMITATIONS: Retrospective study may have resulted in under diagnosis of mixed states. CONCLUSIONS: An approximately three-fold greater risk for mixed features was observed in patients with bipolar disorder when using the DSM-5 criteria than when using the DSM-IV-TR criteria. The additional patients may represent patients with sub-syndromal mixed features and could indicate that patients with mixed features are underdiagnosed. 


PMID- 25462406
TI  - Characteristics and differences in treatment outcome of inpatients with chronic vs. episodic major depressive disorders.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Approximately 20-30% of patients with Major depressive disorder (MDD) develop a chronic course of their disease. Chronic depression is associated with increased health care utilisation, hospitalisation and a higher disease burden. We identified clinical correlates and differences in treatment response of chronic MDD (cMDD) patients compared with non-chronic episodic depression in a huge sample of depressive inpatients. METHODS: Data were collected from 412 inpatients who had been diagnosed with a major depressive episode (MDE; according to ICD-10) and scored 15 or higher on the 21-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HRSD-21). All subjects were participants in the German Algorithm Project, phase 3 (GAP3). Patients who were diagnosed with a MDE within the last two years or longer (herein referred to as CD) were compared with non-chronic depressive patients (herein referred to as non-CD). CD and non-CD patients were assessed for the following: psychosocial characteristics, symptom reduction from hospital admission to discharge, symptom severity at discharge, remission and response rates, and pharmacological treatment during inpatient treatment. The primary outcome measure was the HRSD-21. RESULTS: 13.6% (n=56) of patients met the criteria for chronic depression. Compared with non-CD patients, patients with CD showed increased axis I comorbidities (74% vs. 52%, chi(2) (1)=7.31, p=.02), a higher level of depressive symptoms at baseline and discharge, increased duration of inpatient treatment (64.8 vs. 53.3 days; t=2.86, p=.03) and lower response (HRSD: 60.0% vs. 72.0%; chi(2) (1)=3.61, p<.04; BDI: 40.5% vs. 54.2%; chi(2) (1)=3.56, p=.04) and remission rates (BDI 17.9.% vs. 29.7%; chi(2) (1)=3.42, p=.05. However, both groups achieved a comparable symptom reduction during inpatient treatment. The prescribed pharmacological strategy had no significant influence on treatment outcome in patients with CD. CONCLUSION: Inpatients with CD show higher symptom severity, lower response and remission rates and a longer duration of inpatient treatment, although they achieve comparable symptom reduction during treatment. These findings support the need to recognise CD and its defining characteristics as a distinct subclass of depression. 


PMID- 25462407
TI  - Features preceding diagnosis of bipolar versus major depressive disorders.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Better and earlier predictive differentiation of bipolar (BD) vs. unipolar major depressive disorder (UD) diagnoses should improve long-term clinical planning. METHODS: We reviewed randomly selected clinical records of 334 adults diagnosed with DSM-IV-TR BD-I (n=109), BD-II (n=106), and UD (n=119) and compared features preceding major affective episodes or diagnoses, using bivariate, multivariate, and Bayesian methods. RESULTS: We identified antecedents selectively associated with later BD vs. UD in 52.6% vs. 31.1% of subjects in childhood, starting at age 7.4 years, and 60.0% vs. 32.8% in adolescence, with far more features in BD than UD cases (10.3 vs. 4.64/100 person-years; p<0.001). In multivariate modeling, BD-selective factors were: younger at first clinical event > male sex > family BD-history > cyclothymic or hyperthymic temperament > antecedents/person-year. Nonaffective (anxiety, eating, or substance-use) disorders preceded BD vs. UD in 41.4% vs. 28.6% of subjects (p=0.02). By ROC analysis, differential prediction of BD vs. UD was optimal with any >= 3 factors/person. LIMITATIONS: The validity and timing of antecedent events and factors identified retrospectively from clinical records could not be verified independently, but information was recorded systematically and consistently by a single mood-disorder expert prior to diagnosis, and extracted by two independent observers. COMMENT: Early clinical features distinguished later BD from UD, often by years. Such prediction should improve treatment-planning and limit risk of mood-switching. 


PMID- 25462408
TI  - How does the ICD-10 symptom rating (ISR) with four items assess depression compared to the BDI-II? A validation study.
AB  - OBJECTIVE: The "ICD-10 Symptom-Rating" (ISR) is a novel 29-item self-rating questionnaire with scales for the assessment of depression, anxiety, OCD, somatisation and eating disorders and additional items. This study aims at the validation of the depression subscale. METHODS: Based on a sample of 1844 depressed inpatients, the ISR was correlated with the Beck-Depression-Inventory-II (BDI-II). To estimate the sensitivity to change, the effect sizes were also calculated. RESULTS: The correlation between ISR and BDI-II was r=0.79. The sensitivity to change for the BDI-II was d=1.44, for the ISR-depression scale d=1.64. LIMITATIONS: The studied sample shows a higher psychiatric and somatic comorbidity, a lower mean age and a higher level of education than comparable samples from other psychiatric or psychosomatic studies. Although we cannot find any effects of these differences on our results, they cannot be fully dismissed without further study. CONCLUSION: The ISR-depression scale correlates highly with the BDI-II. Being more sensitive to change than the BDI-II, the ISR is a useful tool to diagnose and measure the severity and course of depression. 


PMID- 25462409
TI  - An individual task meta-analysis of social cognition in euthymic bipolar disorders.
AB  - OBJECTIVE: Social cognition has been shown to be affected in bipolar disorders, even during euthymia. However, the social cognitive profile of this group of disorders remains to be ascertained, given that such a broad neuropsychological construct has not been systematically examined in bipolar subjects across different tasks. The aim of this study was to quantify the magnitude of patient-control differences for distinct social cognition assessment instruments: the Hinting Task, the Eyes Test, Faux Pas, the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test, and emotional labeling using visual stimuli. METHOD: Effect sizes were extracted from studies chosen according to more stringent criteria than previously used in systematic reviews on the topic and pooled by means of meta-analytical procedures. RESULTS: No significant patient-control differences were found for the recognition of three basic emotions (happiness, sadness, and anger). Small but significant effect sizes favoring healthy controls (Hedges' g<0.5) were noted for emotional intelligence, the Hinting Task, the Eyes Test, and the recognition of fear, disgust, and surprise. A medium effect size (Hedges' g=0.58) was noted for the Faux Pas Test. LIMITATIONS: The possible effects of other neurocognitive impairments on social cognitive performance could not be explored. CONCLUSION: On average, small-to-moderate differences may exist between euthymic bipolar disorder subjects and healthy controls regarding social cognitive performance, with mental state decoding being more preserved than mental state reasoning. The influence of clinical and neurocognitive variables, which may play an important role in the social cognitive outcomes of these patients, deserves further clarification. 


PMID- 25462410
TI  - Manic tendencies are not related to being an entrepreneur, intending to become an entrepreneur, or succeeding as an entrepreneur.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Popular literature suggests a relationship between entrepreneurship and manic tendencies, yet little scientific research has evaluated whether manic tendencies foster entrance into entrepreneurial roles, intent to become an entrepreneur, or success as an entrepreneur. METHODS: In study 1, 225 undergraduates and business school students/affiliates took an online survey to assess engagement and intent as entrepreneurs, as well as manic tendencies, including family diagnoses as reported on the Family Index of Risk for Mania, subsyndromal manic tendencies as assessed with the Hypomanic Personality Scale, and self-reported diagnoses. In study 2, the sample of entrepreneurs identified in study 1 was enriched by recruiting a larger group of established entrepreneurs from the community. Entrepreneurs (n=210) completed items concerning their success in entrepreneurship, and we examined whether the three measures of manic tendencies were related to success. RESULTS: There was no evidence that those vulnerable to mania, regardless of definition, were more likely to be entrepreneurs, to intend to become entrepreneurs, or to succeed as entrepreneurs. LIMITATIONS: The studies were limited by self-report measures and relatively small samples. CONCLUSIONS: More nuanced models may explain the frequent clinical observations of manic traits among entrepreneurs. 


PMID- 25462411
TI  - Immediate cerebral metabolic changes induced by discontinuation of deep brain stimulation of subcallosal cingulate gyrus in treatment-resistant depression.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Positron emission tomography (PET) studies have shown that the antidepressant effect of chronic deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subcallosal cingulate gyrus (SCG) may be consequence of modifications of brain metabolism at key structures involved in depression. Like clinical benefits, these metabolic changes may reverse when the stimulation is discontinued, even preceding clinical worsening. However no data on immediate effects of DBS discontinuation are available. The aim of this study was to determine immediate cerebral metabolism changes during a short switch-off of electrical stimulation in implanted patients with treatment-resistant depression (TRD) who had achieved clinical improvement after a period of chronic DBS. METHODS: Seven patients with TRD who had been previously implanted for DBS in SCG were included. After a period of clinical stabilization two consecutive FDG-PET were acquired, the first with active stimulation and the second after 48 h of inactive stimulation. A HAMD-17 to assess depressive symptoms was performed before both scans. Analyses were performed with SnPM8. RESULTS: Inactive stimulation was characterized by metabolism decreases in dorsal anterior cingulate (Broadmann Area, BA24), premotor region (BA6) and putamen with respect to active stimulation. No clinical changes according to HAMD-17 were detected. LIMITATIONS: The main limitation of this study is the small sample size. CONCLUSION: Our results point to immediate effects of DBS discontinuation on metabolism of brain depressive network which precede clinical changes, helping to disentangle the rationale behind DBS efficacy in TRD. 


PMID- 25462412
TI  - Self-reported school experience as a predictor of self-harm during adolescence: a prospective cohort study in the South West of England (ALSPAC).
AB  - BACKGROUND: Several aspects of school life are thought to be associated with increased risk of self-harm in adolescence, but these have rarely been investigated in prospective studies. METHODS: Members of the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC) birth cohort completed postal surveys of school experiences aged 14, and self-harm behaviour aged 16 (n=3939). Associations between school experiences (feeling connected to school, enjoyment of school and perception of teachers as fair) and subsequent self-harm were examined using multivariable logistic regression models. RESULTS: Self-harm aged 16 was associated with earlier perceptions of school, specifically not getting on well with or feeling accepted by others (OR=2.43 [1.76, 3.35] and OR=2.69 [2.16, 3.35] respectively), not liking school or the work done in class (OR=1.40 [1.17, 1.69] and OR=1.36 [1.10, 1.67]), and feeling that teachers are not clear about behaviour or fail to address misbehaviour consistently (OR=1.59 [1.20, 2.12] OR=1.89 [1.51, 2.37]). These associations were partially attenuated in models controlling for mental health concurrent with the outcome. Poor school experiences were related to both suicidal and non-suicidal self-harm, with slightly stronger associations visible for the former. LIMITATIONS: (i) There was some loss to follow up, (ii) experience of bullying was not measured, and (iii) exposure and outcome measures were self-report. CONCLUSIONS: Students who feel unconnected to school, unhappy at school, or feel that teachers are unfair are more likely to self-harm in the future. Assessing students' perceptions of school may serve to identify those at risk of self-harm who would benefit from preventative interventions. 


PMID- 25462413
TI  - Increased uric acid levels in bipolar disorder subjects during different phases of illness.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Recent evidence indicates the possible involvement of adenosine and the purinergic system in the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder (BD). The aim of this study is to compare serum uric acid (UA) levels in a large group of BD patients (in mania, depression and euthymia) vs. a control group of patients with different psychiatric disorders. METHODS: 150 BD (SCID-I; DSM-IV) patients were compared to 150 age- and gender-matched subjects with MDD, OCD, or Schizophrenia. Mean serum UA values were compared with the ANOVA, with Bonferroni's post-hoc tests. RESULTS: Mean serum UA levels (5.06 +/- 1.45 vs. 4.17 +/- 1.05 mg/dL) and rates of hyperuricaemia (30.7% vs. 6.7%) were significantly higher in the bipolar than in the control group. No differences were detected between bipolars in different phases of illness, with all three groups (manic, depressive and euthymic bipolars) showing significantly higher UA levels as compared to controls. No correlations were found between UA levels and YMRS or HAM-D scores. Mean UA levels were also higher in bipolars never exposed to mood stabilizers vs. controls (5.08 +/- 1.43 vs. 4.17 +/- 1.05 mg/dL), with no differences compared to other bipolars. LIMITATIONS: Our study suffers from the lack of a healthy comparison group; moreover, longitudinal data are missing. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides further evidence of a purinergic dysfunction associated with BD, in all phases of the illness. It is possible that increased UA levels are a trait marker of higher vulnerability to bipolar disorder, and are even more increased during mania (mostly in the first manic episode of drug-naive patients). 


PMID- 25462414
TI  - Depression in advanced cancer--assessment challenges and associations with disease load.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Patients with advanced cancer commonly experience multiple somatic symptoms and declining functioning. Some highly prevalent symptoms also overlap with diagnostic symptom-criteria of depression. Thus, assessing depression in these patients can be challenging. We therefore investigated 1) the effect of different scoring-methods of depressive symptoms on detecting depression, and 2) the relationship between disease load and depression amongst patients with advanced cancer. METHODS: The sample included 969 patients in the European Palliative Care Research Collaborative-Computer Symptom Assessment Study (EPCRC-CSA). Inclusion criteria were: incurable metastatic/locally advanced cancer and >= 18 years. Biomarkers and length of survival were registered from patient-records. Depression was assessed using the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) and applying three scoring-methods: inclusive (algorithm scoring including the somatic symptom-criteria), exclusive (algorithm scoring excluding the somatic symptom-criteria) and sum-score (sum of all symptoms with a cut-off >= 8). RESULTS: Depression prevalence rates varied according to scoring-method: inclusive 13.7%, exclusive 14.9% and sum-score 45.3%. Agreement between the algorithm scoring-methods was excellent (Kappa = 0.81), but low between the inclusive and sum scoring-methods (Kappa = 0.32). Depression was significantly associated with more pain (OR-range: 1.09-1.19, p < 0.001-0.04) and lower performance status (KPS-score, OR-range = 0.68-0.72, p < 0.001) irrespective of scoring-method. LIMITATIONS: Depression was assessed using self-report, not clinical interviews. CONCLUSIONS: The scoring-method, not excluding somatic symptoms, had the greatest effect on assessment outcomes. Increasing pain and poorer than expected physical condition should alert clinicians to possible co-morbid depression. The large discrepancy in prevalence rates between scoring-methods reinforces the need for consensus and validation of depression definitions and assessment in populations with high disease load. 


PMID- 25462415
TI  - Emotion dysregulation mediates the relationship between trauma exposure, post-migration living difficulties and psychological outcomes in traumatized refugees.
AB  - BACKGROUND: While emotion dysregulation represents an important mechanism underpinning psychological responses to trauma, little research has investigated this in refugees. In the current study, we examined the mediating role of emotion dysregulation in the relationship between refugee experiences (trauma and living difficulties) and psychological outcomes. METHODS: Participants were 134 traumatized treatment-seeking refugees who completed measures indexing trauma exposure, post-migration living difficulties, difficulties in emotion regulation, posttraumatic stress disorder, depression, and explosive anger. RESULTS: Findings revealed distinctive patterns of emotion dysregulation associated with each of these psychological disorders. Results also indicated that emotion regulation difficulties mediated the association between both trauma and psychological symptoms, and living difficulties and psychological symptoms. LIMITATIONS: Limitations include a cross-sectional design and the use of measures that had not been validated across all cultural groups in this study. CONCLUSIONS: These findings underscore the key role of emotion dysregulation in psychological responses of refugees, and highlight potential directions for treatment interventions for traumatized refugees. 


PMID- 25462416
TI  - Left temporal activation associated with depression severity during a verbal fluency task in patients with bipolar disorder: a multichannel near-infrared spectroscopy study.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Neuroimaging studies using multichannel near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) have provided compelling evidence about the dysfunction of the frontotemporal cortices in patients with bipolar disorder (BD). However, it remains unclear whether the dysfunction is associated with mood state or symptom severity. Using NIRS, we aimed to clarify differences in oxygenated hemoglobin (oxy-Hb) activation between depressive and euthymic states as well as regional brain dysfunction in relation to symptom severity in BD. METHODS: Fifty-five patients with BD, including 30 with bipolar depression (BPD) and 25 with euthymic bipolar disorder (BPE), and 28 healthy controls (HCs) participated in the study. Regional hemodynamic changes during a verbal fluency task (VFT) were monitored using a 52-channel NIRS apparatus. RESULTS: The mean oxy-Hb changes induced by VFT were significantly smaller in the BD patients than in the HCs in 18 channels in the frontotemporal regions (false-discovery rate p<0.05, p=0.000-0.011). The BPD group exhibited significantly smaller changes in mean oxy-Hb compared with the BPE group in three channels of the left temporal region (p=0.005-0.014). In the BD patients, significant negative correlations were observed between mean oxy-Hb changes in the left temporal regions and the severity of depression. LIMITATIONS: Our sample size was small, making the results susceptible to type II errors. CONCLUSIONS: BD patients have persistent hypofunction of the frontotemporal cortical regions. Moreover, the hemodynamic response in the left temporal regions is associated with symptom severity. 


PMID- 25462417
TI  - Sick-leave measures, socio-demographic factors and health care as risk indicators for suicidal behavior in patients with depressive disorders--a nationwide prospective cohort study in Sweden.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Studies based on large data sets investigating a wide range of risk indicators on suicidal behavior in patients with depressive disorders are sparse. This study aimed to examine the association of sick-leave measured in different ways on one hand and socio-demographics, medication, and health care on the other hand with suicide attempt and suicide among patients with depressive disorders. METHODS: This is a population-based prospective cohort study using nationwide register data. All individuals who lived in Sweden 31.12.2004, then aged 16-64 years, and had psychiatric in- or out-patient care due to depressive disorders in 2005 were included (N = 21,096). Univariate and multivariate hazard ratios (HR) and 95% Confidence Intervals (CI) with regard to suicide attempt and suicide during 2006-2010 were estimated by Cox regression. RESULTS: Those with new sick-leave spells, full-time spells, spells due to mental diagnoses and exceeding one year and those having >= 1 sick-leave spells had a higher risk of suicide attempt. Female sex, young age, lower education, living alone, prescription of antidepressants and anxiolytics, inpatient health care, and suicide attempts resulted in higher HRs of suicide attempt in the multivariate analyses (range of HRs 1.17-3.28). Male sex, combined antidepressant and anxiolytic prescription, mental inpatient health care, and suicide attempts predicted subsequent suicide (range of HRs 1.84-3.33). LIMITATIONS: Focus on specialized health care limited generalization. CONCLUSIONS: Sickness absence, social-demographics, and medical determinants were associated with suicidal behavior. These risk indicators should be considered when monitoring individuals with depressive disorders and assessing suicide risk. 


PMID- 25462418
TI  - Cognitive tolerability following successful long term treatment of major depression and anxiety disorders with SSRi antidepressants.
AB  - BACKGROUND: The present study aims to evaluate cognitive tolerability profile of SSRIs in long-term treatment. The secondary aim is to explore differences of side effects profile between patients with major depression (MD) and anxiety disorders (AD). METHODS: Sixty-seven consecutive patients, successfully treated with SSRIs in monotherapy for at least six months for MD or AD, were assessed for side effects, with a special focus on cognition. RESULTS: Over 20% of MD and AD patients in long term treatment with SSRIs reported cognitive symptoms including fatigue, inattentiveness, lack of concentration, memory impairment and apathy. Recall memory impairment, attention deficit and somnolence were most frequently rated as moderate or severe. There were no significant differences in SSRI cognitive side effects profile between MD and AD patients. LIMITATIONS: Subjective measure of cognitive functioning, limited sample size, lack of a control group. CONCLUSIONS: A large proportion of depressed and anxious patients treated successfully with SSRIs for over six months reported cognitive, affective, motivational symptoms. These symptoms are likely to represent SSRI side effects rather than residual depressive symptomatology. 


PMID- 25462419
TI  - Effectiveness and acceptability of accelerated repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) for treatment-resistant major depressive disorder: an open label trial.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a significant cause of worldwide disability and treatment resistance is common. High-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (HF-rTMS) has emerged as a treatment for MDD, and while efficacious, the daily commitment for typical 4-6 weeks of treatment poses a significant challenge. We aimed to determine the effectiveness and acceptability of an accelerated rTMS protocol for MDD. METHODS: In this naturalistic trial, 27 patients with moderate to severe chronic and treatment-resistant MDD were treated with twice-daily HF-rTMS (10 Hz) applied over the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex for 2 consecutive weeks (60,000 pulses). The primary outcomes were rates of clinical remission and response (16-item Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology post-treatment score <= 6, and >= 50% reduction, respectively). Secondary outcomes were self-reported anxious symptoms, depressive symptoms and quality of life, and dropout rates as a proxy for acceptability. RESULTS: Ten (37.0%) patients met criteria for clinical remission and 15 (55.6%) were classified as responders, with comparable outcomes for both moderate and severe MDD. Clinician-rated improvements in depressive symptoms were paralleled in self-reported depressive and anxious symptoms, as well as quality of life. No patient discontinued treatment. LIMITATIONS: This study is limited by short treatment duration that might be lengthened with corresponding improvements in effectiveness, limited duration of follow-up, small sample size, and an open-label design requiring randomized controlled replication. CONCLUSION: An accelerated protocol involving twice-daily sessions of HF-rTMS over the left DLPFC for 2 weeks was effective in treatment-resistant MDD, and had excellent acceptability. Additional research is required to optimize accelerated rTMS treatment protocols and determine efficacy using sham-controlled trials. 


PMID- 25462420
TI  - Hopelessness in adolescents.
AB  - BACKGROUND: The hopelessness scales devised by Beck and by Kazdin have been used in hundreds of studies of both non-clinical and clinical samples. The present study identified non-clinical adolescent samples to see if the mean scores differed by age, sex, year of publication of the study, and nation. METHODS: Studies of school students administered the Beck Hopelessness Scale or the Kazdin Hopelessness Scale for Children were identified from a literature search using PsycINFO and the search term "hopelessness" anywhere in the text. Seventy-eight studies were found reporting mean scores, 44 for American students and 34 for students in other countries. RESULTS: The scores of American students were significantly lower than those of students in other countries, and there was a tendency for boys to have higher scores than girls (in 18 of the 27 studies which reported differences by sex). There was no tendency for the hopelessness scores of American students to have increased in recent years. CONCLUSIONS: American adolescents appear to be less hopeless than adolescent in other nations, and the scores of American adolescents do not seem to have changed significantly over the last 30 years. 


PMID- 25462421
TI  - Adaptation and validation of the "cognitive complaints in bipolar disorder rating assessment" (COBRA) in Chinese bipolar patients.
AB  - BACKGROUND: There is no specific instrument available to measure cognitive deficits as reported by bipolar patients in China. Therefore, if discrepancies between bipolar patients' reports and the results of neuropsychological tests which have been described in other countries existing or not in Chinese bipolar disorder patients have not been known yet. And it is completely blank about the subjective cognition of these Chinese bipolar patients. OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study is to revise and validate a specific, user-friendly, brief instrument named the "cognitive complaints in bipolar disorder rating assessment" (COBRA) into Chinese version. METHODS: The total sample (N=255) included 125 bipolar disorder patients and 130 healthy controls. The psychometric properties of the COBRA (e.g. internal consistency, retest reliability, discriminative validity, concurrent validity, content validity, item analysis, confirmatory factor analysis, ROC curve and feasibility) were analyzed. RESULTS: The Chinese version of the COBRA had very high internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha=0.905) and retest reliability (ICC=0.902). Confirmatory factor analysis validated the one-factor model and the cut-off value to discriminate the patients and controls was 11.Bipolar patients experienced greater cognitive complaints compared to control group suggesting a discriminative validity of the instrument. No significant correlation was found between the COBRA and the total Montreal Cognitive Assessment Scale (MoCA), except for single measures related to executive function (phonemic fluency, p=0.045), verbal memory (delayed recall, p=0.004). LIMITATIONS: Cross-sectional design, no specific or unspecific but reliable instrument in Chinese to assess subjective cognitive difficulties in mental disorders for criterion validity or convergent validity analysis. CONCLUSIONS: The Chinese version of the COBRA showed to be a simple and reliable instrument to assess subjective cognitive complaints in Chinese bipolar patients. 


PMID- 25462422
TI  - Symptoms of PTSD in a sample of female victims of sexual violence in post-earthquake Haiti.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Globally, sexual violence (SV) impacts 25-33% of women, is often perpetrated by intimate partners and occurs even post-disasters. The 2010 Haiti earthquake occasioned a SV epidemic in Cite Soleil, where over 50% of females are reportedly victims of SV via non-intimate partners/strangers (NPSV). Little is known about the psychological effects of SV perpetrated by NPSV; even less in known about the biopsychosocial consequences of NPSV on women in Haiti. Yet, the World Health Organization recently called for research on NPSV, particularly in poor and disaster-affected countries. METHODS: As a first step in categorizing the consequences of NPSV on female victims in Haiti, we conducted 2 focus groups of 16 female residents of Cite Soleil who survived the earthquake and its aftershocks, along with ensuing hurricanes and cholera. RESULTS: Participants reported rapes by strangers who intentionally "crush the uterus." All endorsed criteria for PTSD, including enduring physiological, neurological and psychological symptoms: significant intrusive, avoidance, arousal, cognitive, mood changes, as well as significant distress/impairment in various areas of functioning; and all but one became pregnant from the experience. All denied substance use and other illness that is not associated with the sexual violence. LIMITATIONS: Our study was exploratory, targeting a small sample of women in one specific neighborhood and cannot be generalized to all SV victims in Haiti. CONCLUSIONS: Following earthquakes, there should be vigilance by public health officials and rescue teams for prevention of SV against women. Women who survive SV in Haiti should be provided access to trauma-informed care that addresses biological consequences of the SV, as well as biological, neurological and psychological sequelae. 


PMID- 25462423
TI  - Predictors of post-natal depression are shaped distinctly by the measure of 'depression'.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Many variables have been proposed as predictive of post-natal depression (PND). AIMS: To investigate and refine PND risk variables. METHOD: We recruited a large sample and employed two measures of PND (the dimensional Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale or EPDS, and DSM-defined major depression). RESULTS: High levels of stress in the post-natal period, previous depression and higher depression scores during pregnancy were the only consistent predictors across measures. Those exceeding the EPDS cut-off had additional psychosocial risk factors while those meeting criteria for major depression were strongly predicted by a past history of depression as well as higher pre-natal state depression scores. LIMITATIONS: The EPDS has been used with variable cut off scores across multiple studies. We used only nine of the 10 EPDS items, electing to exclude the self-harm related question, but preserving the recommended EPDS cut-off score, and which might have impacted on predictions. CONCLUSIONS: Study results generated a refined set of predictors of PND but, more importantly, identified that predictors of PND status are distinctly influenced by the measure of PND. Such inconsistencies are intrinsically noteworthy and of potential key importance in shaping intervention strategies. 


PMID- 25462424
TI  - Gender differences in mental disorders and suicidality in Europe: results from a large cross-sectional population-based study.
AB  - INTRODUCTION: When evaluating gender differences in mental disorders and suicidality, specifically between European countries, studies are sparse and frequently hindered by methodological issues, such as the limited items evaluated and inconsistent sampling designs. METHODS: In ten European countries participating in the World Mental Health Survey Initiative, lifetime internalizing and externalizing disorders and suicidality were assessed among 37,289 respondents. Disorders were classified using DMS-IV criteria. Odds ratios (OR) for gender differences were calculated using logistic regression, while trends across age-groups were tested via gender * age interaction. RESULTS: Within countries, prevalence of any lifetime internalizing disorder ranged from 10.8% to 44.5% among women and 5.9% to 26.5% among men, with women having consistently higher odds than men (OR range: 1.52-2.73). Prevalence of any lifetime externalizing disorders ranged from 0.2% to 6.6% among women and 2.2% to 22.4% among men, with women having consistently lower odds than men (OR range: 0.05-0.35). Any lifetime suicide attempt was found in 0.8-5.4% of women and 0.3-2.4% of men, showing inconsistent relative gender-differences across countries (OR range: 0.77-4.72). Significant effects in gender OR across age-groups were not observed for any internalizing disorder or suicide attempt, yet were present for any externalizing disorder in France (p = 0.01), the Netherlands (p = 0.05), and Spain (p = 0.02). LIMITATIONS: Mental disorders were assessed with the CIDI 3.0 and not psychiatric evaluations. Suicidality does not fully represent more important clinical events, such as suicide mortality. CONCLUSIONS: Consistent across European countries, internalizing disorders are more common among women and externalizing disorders among men, whereas gender differences in suicidality varied. 


PMID- 25462425
TI  - Long term course of bipolar I disorder in India: using retrospective life chart method.
AB  - BACKGROUND: There are grounds to believe that the course of bipolar disorder may be different in tropical countries such as India when compared to temperate nations. There is a dearth of literature about the course of bipolar I disorder from India. METHODS: This study was conducted in a multispecialty teaching hospital in southern India. Patients with a DSM-IV TR diagnosis of bipolar I disorder, confirmed using SCID-I, with a minimum duration of illness of 3 years were assessed. Information was gathered on demographic and clinical variables, and the life course of episodes was charted using the National Institute of Mental Health - Life Chart Methodology Clinician Retrospective Chart (NIMH-LCM-CRC). RESULTS: A total of 150 patients with bipolar disorder were included. The mean age at onset of illness was 24.8 (+/- 8.2) years. Mania was the first episode in a majority (85%) of the cases, and was the most frequent episode in the course of the illness, followed by depression. Patients spent an average of 11.1% of the illness duration in a mood episode, most commonly a manic episode. The median duration of manic or depressive episode was 2 months. Median time to recurrence after the first episode was 21 months (inter-quartile range of 10-60 months), and was shorter for women than men. LIMITATIONS: The hospital based sample from a particular region limits generalizability. Recall bias may be present in this retrospective information based study. Medical illness, personality disorders, other Axis I psychiatric disorders (apart from substance use disorder) and influence of adherence to treatment on the course of the disorder were not assessed systematically. CONCLUSIONS: Bipolar I disorder among Indian patients has a course characterized by predominantly manic episodes, which is in line with previous reports from tropical countries and substantially different from that of temperate regions. 


PMID- 25462426
TI  - Clinical and psychometric validation of the psychotic depression assessment scale.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Recent studies have indicated that the 11-item Psychotic Depression Assessment Scale (PDAS), consisting of the 6-item melancholia subscale (HAM-D6) of the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale and 5 psychosis items from the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), is a valid measure for the severity of psychotic depression. The aim of this study was to subject the PDAS, and its depression (HAM-D6) and psychosis (BPRS5) subscales to further validation. METHODS: Patients diagnosed with psychotic depression at Danish psychiatric hospitals participated in semi-structured interviews. Video recordings of these interviews were assessed by two experienced psychiatrists (global severity rating of psychotic depression, depressive symptoms and psychotic symptoms) and by two young physicians (rating on 27 symptom items, including the 11 PDAS items). The clinical validity and responsiveness of the PDAS and its subscales was investigated by Spearman correlation analysis of the global severity ratings and the PDAS, HAM-D6, and BPRS5 total scores. The unidimensionality of the scales was tested by item response theory analysis (Mokken). RESULTS: Ratings from 39 participants with unipolar psychotic depression and nine participants with bipolar psychotic depression were included in the analysis. The Spearman correlation analysis indicated that the PDAS, HAM-D6 and BPRS5 were clinically valid (correlation coefficients from 0.78 to 0.85, p<0.001) and responsive (correlation coefficients from 0.72 to 0.86, p<0.001) measures of psychotic depression. According to the Mokken analysis, all three scales were unidimensional. CONCLUSIONS: The clinical validity, responsiveness and unidimensionality of the PDAS and its subscales were confirmed in an independent sample of patients with psychotic depression. 


PMID- 25462427
TI  - Do community health workers perceive mechanisms associated with the success of community case management of malaria? A qualitative study from Burkina Faso.
AB  - The use of community health workers to administer prompt treatments is gaining popularity in most sub-Saharan African countries. Their performance is a key challenge because it varies considerably, depending on the context, while being closely associated with the effectiveness of case management strategies. What determines community health workers' performance is still under debate. Based on a realist perspective, a systematic review recently hypothesized that several mechanisms are associated with good performance and successful community interventions. In order to empirically investigate this hypothesis and confront it with the reality, we conducted a study in Burkina Faso, where in 2010 health authorities have implemented a national program introducing community case management of malaria. The objective was to assess the presence of the mechanisms in community health workers, and explore the influence of contextual factors. In 2012, we conducted semi-structured interviews with 35 community health workers from a study area established in two similar health districts (Kaya and Zorgho). Results suggest that they perceive most of the mechanisms, except the sense of being valued by the health system and accountability to village members. Analysis shows that drug stock-outs and past experiences of community health workers simultaneously influence the presence of several mechanisms. The lack of integration between governmental and non-governmental interventions and the overall socio-economic deprivation, were also identified as influencing the mechanisms' presence. By focusing on community health workers' agency, this study puts the influence of the context back at the core of the performance debate and raises the question of their ability to perform well in scaled-up anti-malaria programs.  


PMID- 25462428
TI  - Implementation of effective cigarette health warning labels among low and middle income countries: state capacity, path-dependency and tobacco industry activity.
AB  - We investigates the effects of ratifying the WHO Framework Convention of Tobacco Control (FTCT), state capacity, path-dependency and tobacco industry activity on the implementation of effective health warning labels (HWL) on cigarette packs among low and middle income countries (LMIC). Using logistic regression in separate analyses for FCTC Article 11 compliant HWLs and graphic HWLs (GHWL), we found that the odds of FCTC compliance increased by a factor of 1.31 for each year after FCTC entered into force in the country (p < 0.01). The odds of passing GHWLs increased by a factor of 1.46 (p < 0.05) per year after FCTC entered into force. The weaker the capacity of the states were, the less likely they were to have implemented FCTC compliant HWLs (p < 0.05). The countries with voluntary HWLs in 1992 were less likely (OR = 0.19, p < 0.01) to comply with FCTC 21 years later (in 2013). The FCTC has promoted HWL policies among LMICs. Public health regulations require investments in broader state capacity. As the theory of path-dependency predicts voluntary agreements have long lasting influence on the direction of tobacco control in a country. Adopting voluntary HWL policies reduced likelihood of having FCTC compliant HWLs decades later. The fact that voluntary agreements delayed effective tobacco regulations suggests that policymakers must be careful of accepting industry efforts for voluntary agreements in other areas of public health as well, such as alcohol and junk food. 


PMID- 25462429
TI  - The impact of interventions to promote physical activity in urban green space: a systematic review and recommendations for future research.
AB  - Evidence is mounting on the association between the built environment and physical activity (PA) with a call for intervention research. A broader approach which recognizes the role of supportive environments that can make healthy choices easier is required. A systematic review was undertaken to assess the effectiveness of interventions to encourage PA in urban green space. Five databases were searched independently by two reviewers using search terms relating to 'physical activity', 'urban green space' and 'intervention' in July 2014. Eligibility criteria included: (i) intervention to encourage PA in urban green space which involved either a physical change to the urban green space or a PA intervention to promote use of urban green space or a combination of both; and (ii) primary outcome of PA. Of the 2405 studies identified, 12 were included. There was some evidence (4/9 studies showed positive effect) to support built environment only interventions for encouraging use and increasing PA in urban green space. There was more promising evidence (3/3 studies showed positive effect) to support PAprograms or PA programs combined with a physical change to the built environment, for increasing urban green space use and PA of users. Recommendations for future research include the need for longer term follow-up post-intervention, adequate control groups, sufficiently powered studies, and consideration of the social environment, which was identified as a significantly under-utilized resource in this area. Interventions that involve the use of PA programs combined with a physical change to the built environment are likely to have a positive effect on PA. Robust evaluations of such interventions are urgently required. The findings provide a platform to inform the design, implementation and evaluation of future urban green space and PAintervention research. 


PMID- 25462431
TI  - Delineating monoclonal antibody specificity by mass spectrometry.
AB  - UNLABELLED: Generation of monoclonal antibody (mAb) libraries against antigens in complex matrices can prove a valuable analytical tool. However, delineating the specificity of newly generated antibodies is the limiting step of the procedure. Here, we propose a strategy for mAb production by injecting mice with complex biological fluid and mAb characterization by coupling immunoaffinity techniques with Mass spectrometry (immuno-MS). Mice were immunized against fractionated seminal plasma and mAbs were produced. Different immuno-MS protocols based on four types of solid support (i.e. polystyrene microtiter plates, NHS-activated agarose beads, tosyl-activated magnetic beads and MSIATM pipette tips) were established. A well-characterized mouse monoclonal anti-KLK3 (PSA) Ab was used as a model to evaluate each protocol's robustness and reproducibility and to establish a set of criteria which would allow antigen characterization of newly developed Abs. Three of the newly generated Abs were analyzed using our optimized protocols. Analysis revealed that all assay configurations used were capable of antibody characterization. Furthermore, low-abundance antigens (e.g. ribonuclease T2) could be identified as efficiently as the high-abundance ones. Our data suggest that complex biological samples can be used for the production of mAbs, which will facilitate the analysis of their proteome, while the established immuno-MS protocols can offer efficient mAb characterization. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The inoculation of animals with complex biological samples is aiming at the discovery of novel disease biomarkers, present in the biological specimens, as well as the production of rare reagents that will facilitate the ultra-sensitive analysis of the biomolecules' native form. In the present study, we initially propose a general workflow concerning the handling of biological samples, as well as the monoclonal antibody production. Furthermore, we established protocols for the reliable and reproducible identification of antibody specificity using various immuno-affinity purification techniques coupled to mass spectrometry. Our data suggest that processed biological fluids can be used for the production of mAbs targeting proteins of varying abundance, and that various immuno-MS protocols can offer great capabilities for the mAb characterization procedure. 


PMID- 25462430
TI  - Venomics and antivenomics of Bothrops erythromelas from five geographic populations within the Caatinga ecoregion of northeastern Brazil.
AB  - The Caatinga lancehead, Bothrops erythromelas, is a medically relevant species, responsible for most of the snakebite accidents in most parts of its distribution range in northeastern Brazil. The spectrum and geographic variability of its venom toxins were investigated applying a venomics approach to venom pools from five geographic areas within the Caatinga ecoregion. Despite its wide habitat, populations of B. erythromelas from Ceara, Pernambuco, Juazeiro, Paraiba, and Ilha de Itaparica exhibit highly conserved venom proteomes. Mirroring their compositional conservation, the five geographic venom pools also showed qualitatively and quantitatively overlapping antivenomic profiles against antivenoms generated in Vital Brazil (BR) and Clodomiro Picado (CR) Institutes, using different venoms in the immunization mixtures. The paraspecificity exhibited by the Brazilian SAB and the Costa Rican BCL antivenoms against venom toxins from B. erythromelas indicates large immunoreactive epitope conservation across genus Bothrops during the last ~14 million years, thus offering promise for the possibility of generating a broad-spectrum bothropic antivenom. Biological Significance Accidental snakebite envenomings represent an important public health hazard in Brazil. Ninety per cent of the yearly estimated 20-30,000 snakebite accidents are caused by species of the Bothrops genus. Bothrops erythromelas, a small, moderately stocky terrestrial venomous snake, is responsible for most of the snakebite accidents in its broad distribution range in the Caatinga, a large ecoregion in northeastern Brazil. To gain a deeper insight into the spectrum of medically important toxins present in the venom of the Caatinga lancehead, we applied a venomics approach to define the proteome and geographic variability of adult B. erythromelas venoms from five geographic regions. Although intraspecific compositional variation between venoms among specimens from different geographic regions has long been appreciated by herpetologists and toxinologists as a general feature of highly adaptable and widely distributed snake species, the five B. erythromelas populations investigated exhibit highly conserved venom proteomes. The overall toxin profile of the Caatinga lancehead's venom explains the local and systemic effects observed in envenomations by B. erythromelas. The five geographic venom pools sampled also showed qualitatively and quantitatively overlapping antivenomic profiles against antivenoms generated using different bothropic venoms in the immunization mixtures. The large immunoreactive epitope conservation across genus Bothrops offers promise for the generation of a broad-spectrum bothropic antivenom.  


PMID- 25462432
TI  - Response to the Editor: "Fractional exhaled nitric oxide-guided algorithm for children with allergic asthma".
AB  - 


PMID- 25462433
TI  - Visual outcomes of pars plana vitrectomy with epiretinal membrane peel in patients with uveitis.
AB  - PURPOSE: To report the outcomes of pars plana vitrectomy with epiretinal membrane (ERM) peel, with or without internal limiting membrane peel, in patients with uveitis. METHODS: Retrospective interventional case series of patients undergoing pars plana vitrectomy with ERM peel between January 2005 and March 2012. Sixteen consecutive patients (16 eyes) were identified, with a minimum postoperative follow-up of 6 months. Visual acuity, anatomical outcomes, perioperative control of inflammation, and complications were assessed. RESULTS: The mean age at surgery was 47.3 years (range, 14-68 years), with a mean duration of ERM at surgery of 21.3 months (3-84 months). At 6 months, visual acuity improved in 31.25% of eyes, stabilized in 31.25%, and was worse in 37.5%. The causes of reduced visual acuity postoperatively included severe preexisting macular pathology and unoperated cataract. CONCLUSION: Pars plana vitrectomy with ERM peel in eyes with uveitis may improve or stabilize visual acuity, especially in eyes with macular traction, but in the absence of traction, outcomes are variable and unpredictable. Prevention of ERM formation by aggressive control of inflammation is important. 


PMID- 25462434
TI  - Endoresection technique with/without brachytherapy for management of high posterior choroidal melanoma: extended follow-up results.
AB  - PURPOSE: To evaluate the long-term efficacy and safety of endoresection for high posterior choroidal melanoma. METHODS: Retrospective nonrandomized interventional case series. Forty-one patients had endoresection as primary treatment for posterior choroidal melanoma. Of these, 21 patients had adjuvant brachytherapy. The inclusion criteria were tumor thickness >=8 mm, base diameter <15 mm, and posterior tumors not extending anterior to the equator. Main outcomes measures were enucleation rate, visual outcome, surgical complications, local recurrence, metastasis, and mortality. RESULTS: Mean follow-up time was 102.5 months. Mean preoperative best-corrected visual acuity was 20/100. Mean tumor thickness was 9.8 mm (range, 7.7-13.5 mm; standard deviation, 1.7 mm), mean base diameter was 9.9 mm (range, 5-15 mm; standard deviation, 2.8 mm). At the latest visit, 36 patients (87.8%) still retained the eye. Mean postoperative best-corrected visual acuity was 20/1,625. Retinal detachment was the main postoperative complication (28.9%). At completion of follow-up, 12% of patients had phthisis bulbi, and 3 developed chronic hypotony. Five patients (12.2%) had local tumor recurrence; none of them had received brachytherapy as initial treatment. At 5 years of follow-up, 3 patients (7.3%) had liver metastasis. On Kaplan-Meier analysis at 10 years, all-cause mortality was 7.3% and specific mortality because of melanoma was 2.4%. CONCLUSION: Endoresection of high posterior melanomas was not associated with a higher risk of metastasis, death, or local recurrence than other reported techniques used to treat similar melanomas. 


PMID- 25462435
TI  - Intravitreal anti-vascular endothelial growth factor treatment for retinopathy of prematurity: comparison between Ranibizumab and Bevacizumab.
AB  - PURPOSE: To compare the effect and the treatment outcomes of bevacizumab and ranibizumab in the treatment of Type 1 retinopathy of prematurity (ROP). METHODS: This was a bicentered retrospective case series performed at institutional referral centers. Seventy-two eyes of 37 patients who had intravitreal injections of either bevacizumab or ranibizumab as the primary treatment for Type 1 ROP were included. Outcomes' measures included regression and recurrence of ROP, the surgical complications, and refractive errors at a corrected age of 1 year. RESULTS: All but one eye in the bevacizumab group had retinal neovascularization and plus disease regression after anti-vascular endothelium growth factor treatment. Neither recurrence of ROP nor major ocular complications, including cataract, retinal detachment, and endophthalmitis occurred in any of the treated eyes. There were no significant differences in mean refractive errors between the patients treated with intravitreal injections of bevacizumab or ranibizumab at the corrected age of 1 year. A significantly higher chance of high myopia was noted in the bevacizumab group (P = 0.03). CONCLUSION: Both bevacizumab and ranibizumab showed similar efficacy in the regression of ROP with minor mean refractive errors at 1 year of corrected age. However, high myopia was more prevalent in the bevacizumab-treated eyes. 


PMID- 25462436
TI  - Changes in choroidal thickness after panretinal photocoagulation in patients with type 2 diabetes.
AB  - PURPOSE: To investigate the changes in choroidal thickness (CT) in the macular and photocoagulated areas of patients with diabetic retinopathy after panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) using enhanced depth imaging optical coherence tomography. METHODS: Patients with severe nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy or early proliferative diabetic retinopathy who needed PRP were included in this study. Choroidal thickness in the macula and the photocoagulated area was measured with enhanced depth imaging optical coherence tomography at baseline, 1 month, and 3 months after PRP. RESULTS: The mean subfoveal CT increased significantly at 1 month (318.0 +/- 76.4 MUm, P < 0.001) and 3 months (317.4 +/- 75.3 MUm, P < 0.001) after PRP when compared with baseline (307.2 +/- 70.7 MUm). The mean CT in the photocoagulated area decreased significantly from 227.5 +/- 45.0 MUm to 206.9 +/- 41.1 MUm (P < 0.001) at 1 month and 206.0 +/- 41.4 MUm (P < 0.001) at 3 months after PRP. The subgroup analysis showed similar trends of CT changes in patients with or without diabetic macular edema. The mean change in CT was not statistically significantly correlated with the mean change in best-corrected visual acuity after PRP. CONCLUSION: In patients with severe nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy or early proliferative diabetic retinopathy, the mean CT increased significantly in the macular area and decreased significantly in the photocoagulated area after PRP. The results might reflect a redistribution of choroidal blood flow, which may be critical for retinal metabolism. 


PMID- 25462437
TI  - Regulation of Flavivirus RNA synthesis and replication.
AB  - RNA synthesis and replication of the members of the Flavivirus genus (including dengue, West Nile and Japanese encephalitis viruses) is regulated by a wide variety of mechanisms and actors. These include the sequestration of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) for functions other than RNA synthesis, regulatory interactions with other viral and host proteins within the replication complex (RC), and regulatory elements within the RNA genome itself. In this review, we discuss our current knowledge of the multiple levels at which Flavivirus RNA synthesis is controlled. We aim to bring together two active research fields: the structural and functional biology of individual proteins of the RC and the impressive wealth of knowledge acquired regarding the viral genomic RNA.  


PMID- 25462438
TI  - Past, present, and future perspectives on the diagnosis of Roseolovirus infections.
AB  - Diagnosis of Roseolovirus infections mandates careful selection of patients, samples, and testing methods. We review advances in the field and highlight research priorities. Quantitative (q)PCR can accurately identify and distinguish between human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) species A and B. Whether screening of high-risk patients improves outcomes is unclear. Chromosomally integrated (ci)HHV-6 confounds test interpretation but can be ruled out with digital PCR. Reverse transcription qPCR may be a more specific and clinically applicable test for actively replicating Roseoloviruses, particularly among patients with ciHHV-6. Interpretation of Roseolovirus test results faces many challenges. However, careful application of refined and emerging diagnostic techniques will allow for increasingly accurate diagnosis of clinically significant infections and disease associations.  


PMID- 25462439
TI  - Clinical impact of primary infection with roseoloviruses.
AB  - The roseoloviruses, human herpesvirus-6A -6B and -7 (HHV-6A, HHV-6B and HHV-7) cause acute infection, establish latency, and in the case of HHV-6A and HHV-6B, whole virus can integrate into the host chromosome. Primary infection with HHV-6B occurs in nearly all children and was first linked to the clinical syndrome roseola infantum. However, roseolovirus infection results in a spectrum of clinical disease, ranging from asymptomatic infection to acute febrile illnesses with severe neurologic complications and accounts for a significant portion of healthcare utilization by young children. Recent advances have underscored the association of HHV-6B and HHV-7 primary infection with febrile status epilepticus as well as the role of reactivation of latent infection in encephalitis following cord blood stem cell transplantation.  


PMID- 25462441
TI  - Bromovirus-induced remodeling of host membranes during viral RNA replication.
AB  - With its high yield, small genome, and ability to replicate in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Brome mosaic virus (BMV) has served as a productive model to study the general features of positive-strand RNA virus infection. BMV RNA is replicated in spherules, vesicle-like invaginations of the outer perinuclear endoplasmic reticulum membrane that remain connected to the cytoplasm via a neck-like opening. Each spherule contains the viral replicase proteins as well as genomic RNAs. Recent advances indicate that multiple interactions between the viral proteins with themselves, cellular membranes, and host factors play crucial roles in BMV-mediated spherule formation. These findings are probably applicable to other positive-strand RNA viruses and might potentially provide new targets for antiviral treatments.  


PMID- 25462440
TI  - Recent developments in animal models for human herpesvirus 6A and 6B.
AB  - Progress in the identification of suitable animal models for human herpesvirus (HHV)-6A and HHV-6B infections has been slow. Recently, new models have been established, mainly for HHV-6A, which reproduce some pathological features seen in humans. Neuroinflammatory signs were observed in infected marmosets and CD46-transgenic mice; although viral replication was not prominent, persistence of viral DNA and specific immunologic responses were detected, suggesting an immune-mediated pathogenic mechanism. Pig-tailed macaques showed robust viral replication concomitant with acute-phase symptoms, and provided a model to study the effects of HHV-6A on AIDS progression. In humanized mice, viral replication was less evident, but infection led to T-cell alterations. Altogether, these recent developments have opened new perspectives for studying the pathogenic role of HHV-6A in humans.  


PMID- 25462442
TI  - Chromosomally integrated HHV-6: impact on virus, cell and organismal biology.
AB  - HHV-6 integrates its genome into telomeres of human chromosomes. Integration can occur in somatic cells or gametes, the latter leading to individuals harboring the HHV-6 genome in every cell. This condition is transmitted to descendants and referred to as inherited chromosomally integrated human herpesvirus 6 (iciHHV-6). Although integration can occur in different chromosomes, it invariably takes place in the telomere region. This integration mechanism represents a way to maintain the virus genome during latency, which is so far unique amongst human herpesviruses. Recent work provides evidence that the integrated HHV-6 genome can be mobilized from the host chromosome, resulting in the onset of disease. Details on required structural determinants, putative integration mechanisms and biological and medical consequences of iciHHV-6 are discussed.  


PMID- 25462443
TI  - Expanding use of multi-origin subcellular membranes by positive-strand RNA viruses during replication.
AB  - Positive-strand RNA viruses utilize various subcellular membrane surfaces for replication. The subverted membranes facilitate the assembly of viral replication complexes by sequestering viral and co-opted host proteins to reach high local concentrations and protect viral RNAs from destruction by host antiviral responses. In this review, we discuss that tombusviruses and nodaviruses are capable of exploiting alternative subcellular membranes in cells and in vitro in the absence of primary membranes targeted by these viruses or when the replication proteins are retargeted. The roles of protein factors and lipids and membrane contact sites in replication site selection are also discussed. Surprisingly, tombusviruses could also exploit expanded ER membranes, which provide enhanced subcellular environment for replication. The expanded ER membranes are formed due to deletion of a lipin homolog, which is responsible for de novo lipid synthesis and formation of lipid droplets, suggesting that host genes connected to genetic diseases affect virus replication. Overall, these viruses show remarkable flexibility in utilizing various subcellular membranes for replication under different conditions.  


PMID- 25462444
TI  - Evidence linking HHV-6 with multiple sclerosis: an update.
AB  - Following reports of elevated antiviral antibodies in MS patient sera and viral DNA detection in MS plaques nearly two decades ago, the neurovirology community has actively explored how herpesviruses such as HHV-6 might be involved in MS disease pathogenesis. Though findings across the field are non-uniform, an emerging consensus of viral correlates with disease course and evidence of HHV-6-specific immune responses in the CNS provide compelling evidence for a role, direct or indirect, of this virus in MS. Ultimately, the only way to demonstrate the involvement, or lack thereof, of HHV-6 or other herpesviruses in this disease is through a controlled clinical trial of an efficacious antiviral drug.  


PMID- 25462446
TI  - RNA replication errors and the evolution of virus pathogenicity and virulence.
AB  - RNA viruses of plants and animals have polymerases that are error-prone and produce complex populations of related, but non-identical, genomes called quasispecies. While there are vast variations in mutation rates among these viruses, selection has optimized the exact error rate of each species to provide maximum speed of replication and amount of variation without losing the ability to replicate because of excessive mutation. High mutation rates result in the selection of populations increasingly robust, which means they are increasingly resistant to show phenotypic changes after mutation. It is possible to manipulate the mutation rate, either by the use of mutagens or by selection (or genetic manipulation) of fidelity mutants. These polymerases usually, but not always, perform as well as wild type (wt) during cell infection, but show major phenotypic changes during in vivo infection. Both high and low fidelity variants are attenuated when the wt virus is virulent in the host. Alternatively when wt infection is non-apparent, the variants show major restrictions to spread in the infected host. Manipulation of mutation rates may become a new strategy to develop attenuated vaccines for humans and animals.  


PMID- 25462445
TI  - Coupling of replication and assembly in flaviviruses.
AB  - Flaviviruses affect hundreds of millions of people each year causing tremendous morbidity and mortality worldwide. This genus includes significant human pathogens such as dengue, West Nile, yellow fever, tick-borne encephalitis and Japanese encephalitis virus among many others. The disease caused by these viruses can range from febrile illness to hemorrhagic fever and encephalitis. A deeper understanding of the virus life cycle is required to foster development of antivirals and vaccines, which are an urgent need for many flaviviruses, especially dengue. The focus of this review is to summarize our current knowledge of flaviviral replication and assembly, the proteins and lipids involved therein, and how these processes are coordinated for efficient virus production.  


PMID- 25462447
TI  - The development of new therapies for human herpesvirus 6.
AB  - Human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) infections are typically mild and in rare cases can result in encephalitis. A common theme among all the herpesviruses, however, is the reactivation upon immune suppression. HHV-6 commonly reactivates in transplant recipients. No therapies are approved currently for the treatment of these infections, although small studies and individual case reports have reported intermittent success with drugs such as cidofovir, ganciclovir, and foscarnet. In addition to the current experimental therapies, many other compounds have been reported to inhibit HHV-6 in cell culture with varying degrees of efficacy. Recent advances in the development of new small molecule inhibitors of HHV-6 will be reviewed with regard to their efficacy and spectrum of antiviral activity. The potential for new therapies for HHV-6 infections will also be discussed, and they will likely arise from efforts to develop broad spectrum antiviral therapies for DNA viruses.  


PMID- 25462450
TI  - Roseoloviruses: unmet needs and research priorities: perspective.
AB  - The human roseoloviruses, human herpesviruses 6A (HHV-6A), HHV-6B, and HHV-7, are highly prevalent viruses that typically cause fever/rash illnesses such as roseola during early life primary infections. They also cause significant neurologic disease and complications following stem cell and solid organ transplantation, and have suggestive but less certain etiologic associations with other neurologic diseases and immunologic disorders. The US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases recently sponsored a workshop (Roseoloviruses: Clinical Impact, Interventions, and Research Needs) to discuss disease associations, novel biology, and the many unmet research needs related to Roseoloviruses. This perspective is a distillation of the workshop's presentations and discussions, with a focus on the more general research priorities that emerged.  


PMID- 25462449
TI  - Roseoloviruses manipulate host cell cycle.
AB  - During lytic infections HHV-6A and HHV-6B disrupt E2F1-Rb complexes by Rb degradation, releasing E2F1 and driving the infected cells toward the S-phase. Whereas upon infection E2F1 and its cofactor DP1 were up-regulated, additional E2F responsive genes were expressed differentially in various cells. E2F binding sites were identified in promoters of several HHV-6 genes, including the U27 and U79 associated with viral DNA replication, revealing high dependence on the binding site and the effect of the E2F1 transcription factor. Viral genes regulation by E2F1 can synchronize viral replication with the optimal cell cycle phase, enabling utilization of host resources for successful viral replication. Furthermore, it was found that infection by roseoloviruses leads to cell cycle arrest, mostly in the G2/M-phase.  


PMID- 25462451
TI  - Roseoloviruses and their modulation of host defenses.
AB  - Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), the prototypical human beta-herpesvirus, encodes approximately 40 known gene products that function to subvert our host defense mechanisms. From HCMV, we have learned about interferon signaling, cytokine function, chemokine signaling, natural killer (NK) cells' cytotoxicity toward tumors and virus-infected cells, antigen processing and presentation, and protective initiation of the apoptotic signaling cascade. With each successive discovery of novel host evasion mechanism encoded by the cytomegaloviruses, we illuminate what these herpesviruses have learned over the course of their 100 MYr-long evolution with their hosts. As much as we have learned from HCMV, the other members of the human beta-herpesvirus family, HHV-6 and HHV-7, are closely-related and yet largely unexplored. These viruses likely have much yet to teach us.  


PMID- 25462448
TI  - Immune response to HHV-6 and implications for immunotherapy.
AB  - Most adults remain chronically infected with HHV-6 after resolution of a primary infection in childhood, with the latent virus held in check by the immune system. Iatrogenic immunosuppression following solid organ transplantation (SOT) or hematopoetic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) can allow latent viruses to reactivate. HHV-6 reactivation has been associated with increased morbidity, graft rejection, and neurological complications post-transplantation. Recent work has identified HHV-6 antigens that are targeted by the CD4+ and CD8+ T cell response in chronically infected adults. T cell populations recognizing these targets can be expanded in vitro and are being developed for use in autologous immunotherapy to control post-transplantation HHV-6 reaction.  


PMID- 25462452
TI  - ABCG1 is involved in vitamin E efflux.
AB  - Vitamin E membrane transport has been shown to involve the cholesterol transporters SR-BI, ABCA1 and NPC1L1. Our aim was to investigate the possible participation of another cholesterol transporter in cellular vitamin E efflux: ABCG1. In Abcgl-deficient mice, vitamin E concentration was reduced in plasma lipoproteins whereas most tissues displayed a higher vitamin E content compared to wild-type mice. alpha- and gamma-tocopherol efflux was increased in CHO cells overexpressing human ABCG1 compared to control cells. Conversely, alpha- and gamma- tocopherol efflux was decreased in ABCG1-knockdown human cells (Hep3B hepatocytes and THP-1 macro- phages). Interestingly, alpha- and gamma-tocopherol significantly downregulated ABCG1 and ABCA1 expression levels in Hep3B and THP-1, an effect confirmed in vivo in rats given vitamin E for 5 days. This was likely due to reduced LXR activation by oxysterols, as Hep3B cells and rat liver treated with vitamin E displayed a significantly reduced content in oxysterols compared to their respective controls. Overall, the present study reveals for the first time that ABCG1 is involved in cellular vitamin E efflux. 


PMID- 25462453
TI  - LECT2 improves the outcomes in ayu with Vibrio anguillarum infection via monocytes/macrophages.
AB  - Leukocyte cell-derived chemotaxin 2 (LECT2) is reported to be a cytokine involved in the immune response against pathogenic microorganisms in fish. However, its accurate function in whole fish remains unclear. In this study, we provide the first report on the effect of LECT2 on fish defenses against pathogens in vivo. The administration of recombinant LECT2 improved the survival rate of Vibrio anguillarum infected ayu. The bacterial burden of V. anguillarum infected ayu was decreased in LECT2-treated ayu blood, liver, spleen, and kidney compared with saline control. In bacteria-infected ayu, LECT2 treatment altered the mRNA expression of cytokines, including TNFalpha, IL-1beta, and IL-10, which are all important for the inflammatory response in fish. LECT2 treatment also reduced histological damage in bacteria-infected ayu, and increased peritoneal monocytes/macrophages in both healthy and infected ayu at 12 h post infection. When ayu monocytes/macrophages were depleted by clodronate-liposomes treatment, LECT2 treatment did not increase the survival rate of bacteria-infected fish compared with healthy control fish. Thus our results suggest that LECT2 can modulate host defense in ayu and mediate antibacterial protection against V. anguillarum through monocytes/macrophages. 


PMID- 25462454
TI  - Effect of size and temperature at vaccination on immunization and protection conferred by a live attenuated Francisella noatunensis immersion vaccine in red hybrid tilapia.
AB  - Francisella noatunensis subsp. orientalis (Fno) is a pleomorphic, facultative intracellular, Gram-negative, emerging bacterial pathogen of marine and fresh water fish with worldwide distribution. In this study, the efficacy of an attenuated Fno intracellular growth locus C (iglC) mutant was evaluated for use as a live immersion vaccine, when administered to hybrid tilapia at two different stages of growth (5 g fry and 10 g fingerlings) and at two temperatures (25  degrees C and 30  degrees C). To determine vaccine efficacy, mortality, days to first death, and Fno genome equivalents (GE) in the spleens of survivors, as well as serum and mucus antibody levels, were evaluated after 30 d in fish challenged with a wild type virulent strain. Both size and temperature at vaccination played an important role in immunization and protection. Fry vaccinated at 25  degrees C were not protected when compared to non-vaccinated fry at 25  degrees C (p = 0.870). In contrast, 5 g fry vaccinated at 30  degrees C were significantly protected compared to non-vaccinated fry at 30  degrees C (p = 0.038). Although lower mortalities occurred, 10 g fingerlings vaccinated at 25  degrees C were not protected, compared to non-vaccinated fingerlings at 25  degrees C (p = 0.328), while, 10 g fingerlings vaccinated at 30  degrees C were significantly protected, compared to non-vaccinated fingerlings at 30  degrees C (p = 0.038). Additionally, overall mortality of 5 g fish was significantly higher than in 10 g fish. Mortality was also significantly higher in fish subjected to a 30 to 25  degrees C temperature change one week prior to challenge, than in fish maintained at the same temperature during vaccination and challenge. This information demonstrates that both temperature and size at vaccination are important factors when implementing immunization prophylaxis in cultured tilapia. 


PMID- 25462455
TI  - Molecular characterization and functional analysis of Cactin gene from Litopenaeus vannamei.
AB  - Cactin (Cactus interactor) is a conserved protein which was initially discovered as a novel interactor of Drosophila IkB protein Cactus. Cactin was always characterized as a negative regulator of many different developmental processes, but only found to play an immune role in humans. To better know the immune function of Cactin gene, Litopenaeus vannamei Cactin (LvCactin) was identified and characterized in this study. The full-length cDNA of LvCactin is 3, 150 bp long, with an open reading frame (ORF) encoding a Cactin_mid domain in the N-terminus 356-547 residues and a CactinC_cactus domain in the C-terminal 731-855 residues. The LvCactin protein was located in the cytoplasm and LvCactin mRNA was constitutively expressed in healthy L. vannamei, with the highest expression level in the eyestalk. LvCactin could be regulated in hemocytes after lipopolysaccharide (LPS), poly I:C, CpG-ODN2006, Vibrio parahaemolyticus, Staphylococcus aureus, and white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) challenges. Dual-luciferase reporter assays in Drosophila Schneider 2 cells revealed that LvCactin inhibited the promoters of Drosophila and shrimp antimicrobial peptide (AMP) genes. Knockdown of LvCactin by RNA interference (RNAi) increased the expression of shrimp AMP genes PEN4, crustin and ALF2 but not Lyz2. However, the mortality rates of LvCactin-knockdown shrimp in response to V. parahaemolyticus or WSSV infections were not significantly different from those of the control group. Taken together, all the results suggested that LvCactin may play a role in innate immune in L. vannamei. 


PMID- 25462456
TI  - Adaptation to abiotic stress in the oyster Crassostrea angulata relays on genetic polymorphisms.
AB  - Here we describe the whole genome re-sequencing of the Portuguese oyster Crassostrea angulata, an edible cupped oyster of major commercial importance with an important role as biosensor of coastal water pollution. We sequenced the genome of the C. angulata to 29.3-fold coverage using ABI SOLID system. Comparisons of the sequences with the reference assembly of the Pacific oyster (Crassostrea gigas), yielded 129 million SNPs, 151,620 from which were located in 20,908 genes from the C. gigas database. The analysis of Gene Ontology (GO) terms associated with gene regions containing SNPs, revealed that significant GO terms showing differences between the two oyster species, were related to activities of response to stress caused both by drying and by metal contamination. In the Biological Process domain, the GO terms ion transport, phosphorylation and proteolysis processes, among others, showed many polymorphic genes in C. angulata. These processes are related to combating genotoxic and hypo-osmotic stress in the oyster. It is noteworthy that more than 200 polymorphic genes were associated with DNA repair processes. These results reveal that most of the gene polymorphisms observed in C. angulata are associated with processes related to genome adaptation to abiotic stress in estuarine regions and support that genetic polymorphisms may be the base to the observed ability of C. angulata to retain the phenomenally high concentrations of toxic heavy metals. Our results also provide the framework for future investigations to establish the molecular basis of phenotypic variation of adaptive traits and should contribute to the management of the species' genetic resources. 


PMID- 25462457
TI  - Caspase-mediated apoptosis in crustaceans: cloning and functional characterization of EsCaspase-3-like protein from Eriocheir.
AB  - The caspase-3-like gene was cloned from Eriocheir sinensis, and its properties were characterized to identify the biological implications of this caspase in apoptosis in crab. Its deduced full-length protein sequence consists of 462 amino acid residues, including the prodomain and the large and small subunits. Moreover, several residues known to be critical in the caspase-3 catalytic center and binding pocket, as well as the active site pentapeptide motif Q(220)ACRG(224), were identically present in the deduced EsCaspase-3-like protein. Subsequently, the recombinant EsCaspase-3-like (rEsCaspase-3-like) protein was expressed from Escherichia coli and obtained via affinity purification. Results of the in vitro enzymatic activity assays indicated that the rEsCaspase-3-like protein is capable of hydrolyzing the substrate Ac-DEVD-pNA, suggesting a functional role in physiology. EsCaspase-3-like gene transcripts were found to be widely distributed in all tissues as detected by quantitative RT-PCR, being especially abundant in hemocytes and comparatively rare in muscles. Furthermore, EsCaspase-3-like, at both the mRNA and protein levels, was demonstrated to participate in the apoptotic process after stimulation by different pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) in hemocytes. In conclusion, our findings suggest that the EsCaspase-3-like protein functions as an effector caspase and contributes to immune responses against pathogens. 


PMID- 25462458
TI  - Two NF-kappaB inhibitor-alpha (IkappaBalpha) genes from rock bream (Oplegnathus fasciatus): molecular characterization, genomic organization and mRNA expression analysis after immune stimulation.
AB  - IkBa is a member of IkB family, which sequesters NF-kB in an inactivate form in the cytoplasm and blocks the translocation of NF-kB to nucleus. The IkBa paralogs of rock bream (OfIkBa-A and OfIkBa-B) encoded IkBa proteins with typical features including, highly conserved IkB degradation motif, six ankyrin repeats and a PEST sequence. However, their amino acid identity and similarity were only 55.6 and 69.7%, respectively suggesting that these two genes could be the two different isoforms of IkBa. The number and size of the exons of OfIkBa-A and OfIkBa-B were conserved well with all the compared vertebrate species, although they have significantly different genomic sizes. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that OfIkBa-A and OfIkBa-B proteins cluster with IkBa family members; however, they were grouped with different subclades in IkBa family. Tissue specific expression of OfIkBa mRNA was constitutively detected in all the tested tissues, and they showed the higher transcription level in heart, liver, gill and peripheral blood cells, respectively. The injection of flagellin stimulated the mRNA expression of OfIkBa paralogs in head kidney and intestine. Moreover, the OfIkBa mRNA expression in gill and liver was significantly upregulated by LPS, poly I:C and Edwardsiella tarda challenges. The transcription of OfIkBa was up-regulated in early-phase of injection and then rapidly restored. These results suggest that the OfIkBa paralogs might be involved in rapid immune responsive reactions in rock bream against bacterial and viral pathogens. 


PMID- 25462459
TI  - Molecular cloning, characterization and expression analysis of HSP60, HSP70 and HSP90 in the golden apple snail, Pomacea canaliculata.
AB  - The golden apple snail, Pomacea canaliculata, has strong tolerance to high temperature, facilitating its invasion in East and Southeast Asia. In the present study, three cDNAs encoding heat shock proteins (PocaHSP60, PocaHSP70, PocaHSP90) in P. canaliculata were cloned and characterized. The PocaHSP60 cDNA was 2447 bp, containing an ORF encoding a polypeptide of 574 amino acids. The PocaHSP70 cDNA was 2644 bp, containing an ORF encoding a polypeptide of 643 amino acids. The PocaHSP90 cDNA was 2546 bp, containing an ORF encoding a polypeptide of 726 amino acids. Genomic DNA analysis showed that PocaHSP60 had 11 introns in the coding region and PocaHSP90 had 7 introns but PocaHSP70 had no one. The expression changes of these three PocaHSPs in the gill, digestive gland, kidney and foot muscle of P. canaliculata exposed to high and low temperature were investigated. The results of quantitative PCR and western blotting showed that the expression level of PocaHSP90 was much higher than PocaHSP60 and PocaHSP70 at room temperature, and PocaHSP70 expression level was the lowest among them. Afterheat shock, PocaHSP70 expression increased rapidly, much more significantly than PocaHSP90 expression, and the effect of heat shock on the expression of PocaHSP70 and PocaHSP90 in the different tissues of P. canaliculata was not the same. Unlike PocaHSP70 and PocaHSP90, PocaHSP60 expression seemed not to be affected by heat shock, because its expression was moderately induced only in the foot muscle. However, cool shock had little effect on the expression change of above three PocaHSPs. These results indicated that HSPs might be related to the thermal resistance of P. canaliculata. 


PMID- 25462460
TI  - Effect of dietary astaxanthin against Aeromonas hydrophila infection in common carp, Cyprinus carpio.
AB  - The effect of astaxanthin at 0, 25, 50, and 100 mg kg(-1) incorporated in basal feed on immune response and disease resistance in Cyprinus carpio against Aeromonas hydrophila was investigated. When fed with 25 mg kg(-1) diet, the cumulative mortality was 35% whereas it was 10% and 20% with 50 and 100 mg kg(-1) diets. With all enriched diets the growth rate increased significantly from week 1 to 4 when compared with control. However, the specific growth rate (SGR), feed conversion ratio (FCR), and protein efficiency ratio (PER) did not vary significantly from that of the control except with 50 mg kg(-1) diet. When fed with 50 and 100 mg kg(-1) diets the red blood cells, white blood cells, hemoglobin, and hematocrit values significantly increased. However, the serum total protein, albumin, and globulin contents significantly increased only when fed with 50 and 100 mg kg(-1) diets. The phagocytic ratio also significantly raised with 50 and 100 mg kg(-1) diets on week 2 and 4 whereas the phagocytic index significantly increased with all groups only on fourth week. The respiratory burst activity significantly increased in 25 mg kg(-1) diet group on first week whereas in 50 and 100 mg kg(-1) diet groups the activity increased on weeks 2 and 4; a similar trend was observed in the anti-protease activity only on weeks 2 and 4. The serum lysozyme activity and bactericidal activity registered a significant increase with all enriched diets. This study suggests that supplementation of astaxanthin at 50 and 100 mg kg(-1) with the basal diet significantly promotes the growth restores hematology and modulates the immune system in C. carpio against A. hydrophila. 


PMID- 25462461
TI  - Zebrafish fed on recombinant Artemia expressing epinecidin-1 exhibit increased survival and altered expression of immunomodulatory genes upon Vibrio vulnificus infection.
AB  - Artemia has been used extensively in aquaculture as fodder for larval fish, shrimp, and shellfish. Epinecidin-1, an antimicrobial peptide, was isolated from grouper (Epinephelus coioides) in 2005. Epinecidin-1 has been previously reported to possess antimicrobial activity against several Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacterial species, including Staphylococcus coagulase, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Streptococcus pyogenes, and Vibrio vulnificus. In this study, we used electroporation to introduce plasmid DNA encoding a green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-epinecidin-1 fusion protein under the control of the cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter into decapsulated Artemia cysts. Optimization of various properties (including cyst weight (0.2 g), plasmid concentration (50 MUg/100 MUl), and pulse voltage (150 V), length (10 ms), and number (2)) resulted in a hatching rate of 41.15%, a transfection efficiency of 49.81%, and a fluorescence intensity (A.U.) of 47.46. The expression of EGFP-epinecidin-1 was first detected by quantitative RT-PCR at 120 h post-electroporation, and protein was identified by Western blot at the same time. Furthermore, the EGFP-epinecidin-1 protein inhibited V. vulnificus (204) growth, as demonstrated by zone of inhibition studies. Zebrafish fed on transgenic Artemia expressing CMV-gfp-epi combined with commercial fodder were more resistant to infection by V. vulnificus (204): survival rate was enhanced by over 70% at 7, 14, and 21 days post-infection, and bacterial numbers in the liver and intestine were reduced. In addition, feeding of transgenic Artemia to zebrafish affected the immunomodulatory response to V. vulnificus (204) infection; expression of immune-responsive genes, including hepcidin and defbl2, was altered, as shown by qPCR. These findings suggest that feeding transgenic Artemia expressing CMV-gfp-epi to larval fish has antimicrobial effects, without the drawbacks of introducing drug residues or inducing bacterial drug resistance.  


PMID- 25462462
TI  - Dietary administration of Gynura bicolor (Roxb. Willd.) DC water extract enhances immune response and survival rate against Vibrio alginolyticus and white spot syndrome virus in white shrimp Litopeneaus vannamei.
AB  - Gynura bicolor (Roxb. & Willd.) DC., a perennial plant belonging to the Asteraceae family, is originated from the tropical area of Asia. The total hemocyte count (THC), phenoloxidase (PO) activity, respiratory bursts (RBs), superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, and lysozyme activity were examined after white shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei had been fed diets containing the water extract of G. bicolor at 0 (control), 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 g (kg diet)(-1) for 7-28 days. The results indicated that these parameters increased accordingly with the amount of extract and time. THCs of the shrimp fed the G. bicolor diets at 1.0 and 2.0 g (kg diet)(-1) were significantly higher than that fed the control diet for 14-28 days. For the shrimp fed the G. bicolor diets at 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 g (kg diet)(-1), the PO, RBs, and lysozyme activities reached the highest levels after 7 days, whereas SOD activity reached the highest levels after 14 days. In a separate experiment, white shrimp L. vannamei fed the diets containing the G. bicolor extract for 28 days were challenged with Vibrio alginolyticus at 3 * 10(6) cfu shrimp(-1) and white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) at 1 * 10(3) copies shrimp(-1). The survival rate of the shrimp fed the G. bicolor diets was significantly higher than that of the shrimp fed the control diet at 48-144 h post challenge V. alginolyticus and WSSV. For the shrimp fed the G. bicolor diets at 0.5, 1 and 2 g (kg diet)(-1) under challenges of V. alginolyticus and WSSV, their LPS- and beta-1,3-glucan-binding protein (LGBP) and peroxinectin (PE) mRNA expressions were significantly higher than those of the challenged control shrimp at 12-96 and 24-144 h post-challenge, respectively. We concluded that dietary administration of a G. bicolor extract could enhance the innate immunity within 28 days as evidenced by the increases in immune parameters (PO, RBs, and lysozyme) and antioxidant enzyme (SOD) activities of shrimp to against V. alginolyticus and WSSV infections.  


PMID- 25462463
TI  - Protein encoded by ORF093 is an effective vaccine candidate for infectious spleen and kidney necrosis virus in Chinese perch Siniperca chuatsi.
AB  - Infectious spleen and kidney necrosis virus (ISKNV) is the causative agent of a disease causing high mortality and economic losses in Chinese perch, Siniperca chuatsi in China. Little information about the antigenicity of ISKNV proteins is available. In this study the ORF093 gene of ISKNV was cloned into the prokaryotic expression vector pET32a(+) and eukaryotic expression vector pcDNA3.1(+), and designated as pET-093 and pcDNA-093, respectively. A recombinant 51-kDa protein was detected in Escherichia coli BL21 (harboring pET-093) after IPTG inducement. Polyclonal antibodies were raised in rabbits against the purified ORF093 protein and the reaction of the antibodies was confirmed by western blotting using the purified recombinant protein. Expression of the pcDNA-093 in muscle tissue of vaccinated fish was confirmed by western blotting. The protection efficacy of ORF093 was investigated and results showed that cumulative mortality of Chinese perch was significant differences between immune groups and control (P<0.05) after ISKNV challenge, and the RPS value of 093 recombinant protein, pcDNA093 and pcDNA093+MCP was 47%, 50% and 57%. The results suggested that ORF093 is an effective vaccine candidate for ISKNV and it can be used in the control of ISKNV disease in Chinese perch. 


PMID- 25462464
TI  - Post-capture immune gene expression studies in the deep-sea hydrothermal vent mussel Bathymodiolus azoricus acclimatized to atmospheric pressure.
AB  - Deep-sea hydrothermal vents are extreme habitats that are distributed worldwide in association with volcanic and tectonic events, resulting thus in the establishment of particular environmental conditions, in which high pressure, steep temperature gradients, and potentially toxic concentrations of sulfur, methane and heavy metals constitute driving factors for the foundation of chemosynthetic-based ecosystems. Of all the different macroorganisms found at deep-sea hydrothermal vents, the mussel Bathymodiolus azoricus is the most abundant species inhabiting the vent ecosystems from the Mid-Atlantic Ridge (MAR). In the present study, the effect of long term acclimatization at atmospheric pressure on host-symbiotic associations were studied in light of the ensuing physiological adaptations from which the immune and endosymbiont gene expressions were concomitantly quantified by means of real-time PCR. The expression of immune genes at 0 h, 12 h, 24 h, 36 h, 48 h, 72 h, 1 week and 3 weeks post-capture acclimatization was investigated and their profiles compared across the samples tested. The gene signal distribution for host immune and bacterial genes followed phasic changes in gene expression at 24 h, 1 week and 3 weeks acclimatization when compared to other time points tested during this temporal expression study. Analyses of the bacterial gene expression also suggested that both bacterial density and activity could contribute to shaping the intricate association between endosymbionts and host immune genes whose expression patterns seem to be concomitant at 1 week acclimatization. Fluorescence in situ hybridization was used to assess the distribution and prevalence of endosymbiont bacteria within gill tissues confirming the gradual loss of sulfur-oxidizing (SOX) and methane-oxidizing (MOX) bacteria during acclimatization. The present study addresses the deep-sea vent mussel B. azoricus as a model organism to study how acclimatization in aquaria and the prevalence of symbiotic bacteria are driving the expression of host immune genes. Tight associations, unseen thus far, suggest that host immune and bacterial gene expression patterns reflect distinct physiological responses over the course of acclimatization under aquarium conditions.  


PMID- 25462465
TI  - Developmental lag of visuospatial attention in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
AB  - Children with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) present a specific deficit of voluntary attention but to date there has been no clear characterization of their attentional skills. The present study investigated the hypothesis that DMD patients present deficits of both voluntary and automatic visuospatial attention systems and that their performance could be equivalent to that of younger healthy males. Twenty males (mean age 10 years) with diagnosis of DMD, 20 age-matched healthy males (10 years 3 months) and 20 healthy younger males (7 years 6 months) were required to perform two visuospatial attention tasks: voluntary and automatic. In the voluntary task, the performance of the DMD group was significantly worse than that of the age-matched group, and equal to that of the younger controls. In the automatic attention task also, the performance of the DMD patients was less efficient than that of the age-matched controls and equal to that of the younger children. This study supports the previous report of voluntary attention deficit in DMD and extends the evidence to include also an automatic attention system deficit. The development level of attention in DMD patients is below that expected for their age and corresponds to a delay of about three years. 


PMID- 25462467
TI  - Capacity of adolescents with cerebral palsy on paediatric balance scale and Berg balance scale.
AB  - The Berg balance scale (BBS) and the paediatric balance scale (PBS) are reliable tools for measuring balance ability. However, reports of BBS and PBS scores in adolescent cerebral palsy have been limited. The objectives of this study were to investigate functional balance capacities, as tested with the BBS and PBS in adolescents with cerebral palsy, to compare the total PBS and BBS scores between Gross Motor Function Classification System-Expanded and Revised (GMFCS-E&R) levels and to compare the static balance PBS and BBS scores within each GMFCS-E&R level. Fifty-eight school-aged adolescents with cerebral palsy between the ages of 12 and 18 years with GMFCS-E&R levels of I to IV were recruited. The Kruskal-Wallis test was utilized to compare the median scores for the PBS and BBS between the different GMFCS-E&R levels. Wilcoxon signed-rank tests were performed to examine the differences in the static balance scores between the PBS and the BBS within the same GMFCS-E&R levels. The results reveal that there were differences in the BBS and PBS scores among the four GMFCS-E&R levels. A significant difference was found between the BBS and PBS scores only among the patients with cerebral palsy and level III GMFCS-E&R. The BBS and PBS are valid and reliable tools for clinical examination and for distinguishing between levels of functional balance in adolescents with cerebral palsy. 


PMID- 25462466
TI  - Developmental trajectories of attentional control in preschool males with fragile X syndrome.
AB  - Attention problems are among the most impairing features associated with fragile X syndrome (FXS). However, few studies have examined behavioral development of inhibitory control in very young children with FXS. We examined attentional control in 3-6 year boys with FXS using both an experimental inhibitory control paradigm and parent-report of attention problems. Study 1 examined attentional control in FXS compared to comparison groups matched on chronological and mental age. To determine the stability of impairments over time in FXS, Study 2 examined patterns of developmental change in an expanded longitudinal sample. Across studies, males with FXS demonstrated persistent impairments in inhibitory control and parent-reported attention problems. Inhibitory control was related to, but not solely driven by, lower mental age. Although parent-rated attention problems remained stable across ages, inhibitory control improved with time. Children with more severe attention problems often displayed initially poorer inhibitory control. However, these trajectories also improved more rapidly with age. Our findings indicate that despite persistent deficits in attentional control in young children with FXS, multi-method assessment can be used to capture developmental growth that should be further supported through early, targeted intervention. 


PMID- 25462468
TI  - The difference in medical utilization and associated factors between children and adolescents with and without autism spectrum disorders.
AB  - This study determined differences in health care utilization and health care expenditures between children with and without autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and examined possible reasons for these differences. A retrospective longitudinal study of children aged younger than 18 years both with and without ASD was conducted using the 2008 database of the Ministry of the Interior registry of the disabled persons in tandem with the National Health Insurance Research Database. Propensity score matching for the covariates of age, sex, and parental monthly salary was used to match children at a ratio of 1:3 for observing health care utilization among children with and without ASD from 2008 to 2011. Generalized estimating equation analysis was performed to determine factors that affect health care utilization, such as physician visits, emergency room (ER) visits, hospitalizations, and health care expenditures. After matching was completed, the sample size comprised 3280 children with ASD and 9840 children without ASD. Among the children in the sample, most were boys (86.68%) between the ages of 6-11 years, and the average age of both samples was 9.8 years. After relevant factors were controlled for, the children with ASD yielded an average of 14.2 more annual physician visits and were more likely to visit the ER (OR=1.12, P<.05) or be hospitalized (OR=1.48; P<.05) compared with the children without ASD. Compared with the children without ASD, the children with ASD exhibited higher annual physician visit expenditures (NT$26,580 more), higher ER visit expenditures (NT$50 more), higher hospitalization expenditures (NT$5830 more), and NT$32,460 more total health care expenditures (all P<.05). Significant predictors of health care expenditures among the children with ASD were age, parental monthly salary, and severity of comorbidity. The most common reasons for physician visits or hospitalizations among the children with ASD were psychiatric illnesses, respiratory illnesses, and digestive illnesses. The children without ASD most commonly experienced respiratory, digestive, and nervous system or sense organ illnesses. Health care utilization among children with ASD is higher than that among children without ASD. The results of this study can serve as a reference for governmental agencies enacting relevant health care policies. 


PMID- 25462469
TI  - Efficacy of upper limb strengthening in children with Cerebral Palsy: A critical review.
AB  - OBJECTIVE: This review focuses on the effects of strengthening interventions of the upper limb in children with Cerebral Palsy (CP). The strengthening intervention studies were divided in two categories: those based on stand-alone strength training, and those on strength training combined with other interventions. DATA SOURCES AND EXTRACTION: A search in all relevant databases was performed. DATA SYNTHESIS: Six articles were included: three randomized controlled trials (RCTs), two clinical trial (CT) and one case study. Effect sizes of strength training on muscle strength and function of the upper limb were calculated. CONCLUSION: There are no coherent recommendations for strength training, based on these studies. The causes include too much variety of types of training, level of intensity and duration. All of the reported upper limb strength training studies found an increase in muscle strength. In addition, the quality of these studies was not high. More RCTs on strength training according to the official strength training guidelines are necessary to assess the impact and potential of strength training of the upper limb to improve the daily activities and participation in children with CP. 


PMID- 25462470
TI  - Motor development and sensory processing: A comparative study between preterm and term infants.
AB  - Infants born preterm and/or with low birth weight may present a clinical condition of organic instability and usually face a long period of hospitalization in the Neonatal Intensive Care Units, being exposed to biopsychosocial risk factors to their development due to decreased spontaneous movement and excessive sensory stimuli. This study assumes that there are relationships between the integration of sensory information of preterm infants, motor development and their subsequent effects. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the sensory processing and motor development in preterm infants aged 4-6 months and compare performance data with their peers born at term. METHOD: This was a cross-sectional and comparative study consisting of a group of preterm infants (n=15) and a group of term infants (n=15), assessed using the Test of Sensory Functions in Infants (TSFI) and the Alberta Infant Motor Scale (AIMS). RESULTS: The results showed no significant association between motor performance on the AIMS scale (total score) and sensory processing in the TSFI (total score). However, all infants who scored abnormal in the total TSFI score, subdomain 1, and subdomain 5 presented motor performance at or below the 5th percentile on the AIMS scale. CONCLUSION: Since all infants who presented definite alteration in tolerating tactile deep pressure and poor postural control are at risk of delayed gross motor development, there may be peculiarities not detected by the tests used that seem to establish some relationship between sensory processing and motor development. 


PMID- 25462471
TI  - Risk for osteopenia and osteoporosis in institution-dwelling individuals with intellectual and/or developmental disabilities.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to investigate the prevalence of and contributing factors to osteopenia and osteoporosis among people with intellectual disabilities (ID) or/and developmental disabilities (DD) residing in a disability institution in Taiwan. The present study was conducted at one disability institution in Taiwan and recruited 184 institutionalized residents with ID and/or DD (115 men and 69 women aged 18-72 years) for analysis. For all residents with ID and/or DD, information was obtained about their age, gender, level of ID, BMI, and bone mineral density (BMD). BMD is a measurement of calcium levels in bones that can estimate the risk of osteoporosis and bone fractures. Bone tests were divided into three outcome categories based on their calcaneal BMD T-scores: Normal BMD, a T-score?-1; Osteopenia, -2.5?T-score<-1; and Osteoporosis, a T-score<-2.5. The results revealed that 46.2% of cases were normal and that 27.7% and 26.1% of cases had osteopenia and osteoporosis, respectively. Multiple logistic regression analyses found that male gender (OR=2.482, 95% CI=1.04-5.93, p<0.05), age?40 years (OR=3.051, 95% CI=1.07-8.69, p<0.05) and being overweight/obese (OR=0.395, 95% CI=0.17-0.93, p<0.05) were more likely to be associated with osteoporosis. Another model indicated that males (OR=2.169, 95% CI=1.12-4.19, p<0.05) and those aged?40 years (OR=3.026, 95% CI=1.32-7, p<0.01) tended to have an increased risk for osteopenia and osteoporosis. To improve the bone quality of individuals with ID or/and DD and to decrease the occurrence of osteopenia and osteoporosis, this study highlights that we should pay much attention to the potential risk factors for bone quality in these vulnerable populations. 


PMID- 25462472
TI  - Predictive validity of kindergarten assessments on handwriting readiness.
AB  - We investigated the predictive value of a new kindergarten assessment of handwriting readiness on handwriting performance in first grade as evaluated by the Systematic Screening for Handwriting Difficulties (Dutch abbreviation: SOS). The kindergarten assessment consisted of the Writing Readiness Inventory Tool In Context (WRITIC), the Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual-Motor Integration (BeeryTMVMI) and the Nine-Hole Peg Test (9-HPT). The WRITIC evaluates in kindergarten children (aged 5-6 years) prewriting skills, the BeeryTMVMI and 9-HPT evaluate visual motor integration and fine-motor coordination, all elements important for handwriting readiness. In kindergarten, 109 children (55 boys; mean age 70 months, SD 4.8 months) were tested with the WRITIC, BeeryTMVMI and 9-HPT and one year later in first grade (mean age 85 months, SD 4.5 months) with the SOS. A multivariable linear mixed model was used to identify variables that independently predict outcomes in first grade (SOS): baseline scores on WRITIC-TP, BeeryTMVMI, 9-HPT, 'sustained attention,' 'gender,' 'age' and 'intervention' in the intermediate period. The results showed that WRITIC-TP, BeeryTMVMI, and 9-HPT, 'sustained attention,' 'gender' and 'intervention' had all predictive value on the handwriting outcome. Thereby WRITIC-TP was the main predictor for outcome of SOS-Quality, and BeeryTMVMI and 9-HPT were the main predictors of SOS-Speed. This kindergarten assessment of WRITIC-TP, BeeryTMVMI, and 9-HPT contributes to the detection of children at risk for developing handwriting problems. 


PMID- 25462474
TI  - Humeral external rotation handling by using the Bobath concept approach affects trunk extensor muscles electromyography in children with cerebral palsy.
AB  - This study aimed to investigate the electromyographic activity of cervical and trunk extensors muscles in children with cerebral palsy during two handlings according to the Bobath concept. A crossover trial involving 40 spastic diplegic children was conducted. Electromyography (EMG) was used to measure muscular activity at sitting position (SP), during shoulder internal rotation (IR) and shoulder external rotation (ER) handlings, which were performed using the elbow joint as key point of control. Muscle recordings were performed at the fourth cervical (C4) and at the tenth thoracic (T10) vertebral levels. The Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) was used to assess whether muscle activity would vary according to different levels of severity. Humeral ER handling induced an increase on EMG signal of trunk extensor muscles at the C4 (P=0.007) and T10 (P<0.001) vertebral levels. No significant effects were observed between SP and humeral IR handling at C4 level; However at T10 region, humeral IR handling induced an increase of EMG signal (P=0.019). Humeral ER resulted in an increase of EMG signal at both levels, suggesting increase of extensor muscle activation. Furthermore, the humeral ER handling caused different responses on EMG signal at T10 vertebra level, according to the GMFCS classification (P=0.017). In summary, an increase of EMG signal was observed during ER handling in both evaluated levels, suggesting an increase of muscle activation. These results indicate that humeral ER handling can be used for diplegic CP children rehabilitation to facilitate cervical and trunk extensor muscles activity in a GMFCS level-dependent manner. 


PMID- 25462473
TI  - Paroxysmal phenomena in severe disabled children with refractory seizures. From clinical to long-video-EEG processing data to re-examine suspect events.
AB  - To provide an estimate of the occurrence of misdiagnosis in paroxysmal events in institutionalized children with severe disabilities and refractory epilepsy. A multi-step diagnostic survey, from observational to long-term video-EEG monitoring was performed in 46 severe disabled children. Multirater Kappa statistic was used to assess agreement between investigators and to individualize children who remained with dubious events. Subsequently, prolonged EEG-video monitoring analysis was performed in selected children to define phenomena due to seizures. A total of 128 video records were performed, 64 routine video-EEG and 27 long-monitoring video-EEG data were screened for detailed analysis. Thirty (21 female, 9 male) children (65%) with dubious seizures were identified by video records (concordance K=0.63). Of these, in 18 children (39%) seizures were excluded by routine video-EEG monitoring (K=0.86). Twelve children (26%) required accurate investigations with long-term video-EEG. In 5 children (11%), 3 symptomatic and 2 cryptogenic, very short and subtle seizures were confirmed by investigators concordance (K=0.83). Distinguishing paroxysmal phenomena is a challenge in children with severe disabilities; its most remarkable consequence is inappropriate pharmacological treatment and social costs. Our data suggest that the frequency of misdiagnosis could have been underestimated. The clinicians who manage children with severe disabilities and refractory epilepsy must remain alert to risk of an incorrect treatment. 


PMID- 25462475
TI  - Digital memory encoding in Chinese dyscalculia: An event-related potential study.
AB  - This study reports the neurophysiological and behavioral correlates of digital memory encoding features in Chinese individuals with and without dyscalculia. Eighteen children with dyscalculia (ages 11.5-13.5) and 18 matched controls were tested, and their event-related potentials (ERPs) were digitally recorded simultaneously with behavioral measures. The results showed that both groups had a significant Dm effect, and this effect was greater in the control group. In the 300-400-ms, 400-500-ms, and 600-700-ms processing stages, both groups showed significant differences of digital memory encoding in the frontal, central, and parietal regions. In the 500-600-ms period, the Dm effect in the control group was significantly greater than that in the dyscalculia group only in the parietal region. These results suggest that individuals with dyscalculia exhibit impaired digital memory encoding and deficits in psychological resource allocation. 


PMID- 25462476
TI  - Learning of writing letter-like sequences in children with physical and multiple disabilities.
AB  - This study compared implicit and explicit learning instructions in hand writing. Implicit learning is the ability to acquire a new skill without a corresponding increase in knowledge about the skill. In contrast, explicit learning uses declarative knowledge to build up a set of performance rules that guide motor performance or skills. Explicit learning is dependent on working memory, implicit learning is not. Therefore, implicit learning was expected to be easier than explicit learning in children in special education, given their expected compromised working memory. Two groups of children (5-12 years) participated, children in special education with physical or multiple disabilities (study group, n=22), and typically developing controls (n=32). Children learned to write letter-like patterns on a digitizer by tracking a moving target (implicitly) and verbal instruction (explicitly). We further tested visual working memory, visual-motor integration, and gross manual dexterity. Learning curves were similar for both groups in both conditions; children in the study group did learn both implicitly and explicitly. Motor performance was related to the writing task. In contrast to our hypothesis, visual working memory was not an important factor in the explicit condition. These results shed new light on the conceptual difference between implicit and explicit learning, and the role of working memory therein. 


PMID- 25462477
TI  - Evaluation and characterization of manual reaching in children with cerebral palsy: A systematic review.
AB  - Manual reaching is used daily to perform manipulative tasks and activities of daily routine. Children with cerebral palsy (CP) have limitations in this activity, with functional loss as a possible consequence. This review aimed to gather studies that evaluated and characterized manual reaching in children with CP, with the purpose of identifying the aspects analyzed, as well as review and discuss the results in the studies and its relationship to the children's level of functionality. 17 studies were selected for this systematic review from the search in electronic databases. The studies showed that children with CP show deficits in several spatio-temporal variables of reaching compared to typical children, such as longer time to perform the activity, higher peak velocity, lower index of curvature, and greater number of units of motion, which indicates lower smoothness and linearity of the movements of upper limbs. The performance is influenced by the level of motor impairment and various manipulations of the task. However, more studies are needed that help translating these results into treatment strategies that facilitate the performance of manual activities in children with CP. 


PMID- 25462478
TI  - Anxiety disorders in children and adolescents with intellectual disability: Prevalence and assessment.
AB  - Children and adolescents with intellectual disability are known to experience mental health disorders, but anxiety disorders in this population have received relatively little attention. Firstly, this paper provides a review of published studies reporting prevalence rates of anxiety disorders in children and adolescents with intellectual disability. Secondly, the paper reviews measures of anxiety that have been evaluated in children/adolescents with intellectual disability, and details the associated psychometric properties. Seven studies reporting prevalence rates of anxiety disorders in this population were identified, with reported rates varying from 3% to 22%. Two-one studies evaluating a measure of anxiety in a sample of children/adolescents with intellectual disability were identified. While these studies indicate that several measures show promise, further evaluation studies are needed; particularly those that evaluate the capacity of measures to screen for anxiety disorders, not only measure symptoms. 


PMID- 25462479
TI  - (The null) Importance of police experience on intuitive credibility of people with intellectual disabilities.
AB  - In the present study, the intuitive ability of police to discriminate between real and false statements of people with mild and moderate (IQ range=50-80, average=60.0) intellectual disabilities (ID) was analyzed. The assessments issued by groups with different levels of experience in police techniques (psychology students, and police officers) were compared. The results showed no differences between the two groups in their ability to discriminate (d'=0.785 and d'=0.644, respectively). When the experience of the police was taken into consideration, no differences were found between "experienced" and "novice" police officers (d'=0.721 and d'=0.582, respectively). No differences were found in response criteria, which were neutral in all cases. Moreover, 34.73% of cases evaluated by the inexperienced group were incorrectly discriminated, in comparison to the 37.75% of incorrect assessments made by police. The implications of the limited ability of intuition to discriminate between real and simulated victims with ID, which did not yield significant differences between experienced and inexperienced assessors in obtaining and assessing statements, are discussed. In light of the results of this study, it is concluded that adequate resources and standardized procedures to properly address people with ID who come into contact with the police and judicial institutions need to be provided. 


PMID- 25462480
TI  - Impact of obesity and Down syndrome on peak heart rate and aerobic capacity in youth and adults.
AB  - Individuals with Down syndrome (DS) exhibit reduced aerobic capacity with reduced peak heart rate (HRpeak). This condition is often coexistent with higher level of obesity compared to individuals without DS. The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of obesity and Down syndrome (DS) on peak heart rate (HRpeak) and peak oxygen consumption (VO2peak) in children and adults both with and without intellectual disabilities (ID)s. VO2peak and HRpeak from individualized treadmill tests on 654 individuals were analyzed. Body mass index was used to categorize individuals' weight status using standard cut-offs. DS groups had the lowest HRpeak (167bpm+/-14, p<0.05) compared to individuals with (183bpm+/-12) without ID (187bpm+/-12). Obesity did not affect HRpeak among adults and children with DS. VO2peak was lower among individuals with DS (25.2mL/kg/min+/-6.3, p<0.05) when compared individuals with (37.0mL/kg/min+/-10.5) and without ID (36.1mL/kg/min+/-10.4). Obese adults with DS had lower VO2peak (24.3mL/kg/min+/-6.9, p=0.001) compared to the normal weight (26.7+/-7.1mL/kg/min) and overweight groups (27.0mL/kg/min+/-6.1) with DS. Conversely, in children, obesity level did not impact VO2peak in individuals with DS. Our results suggest that DS attenuates both VO2peak and HRpeak, regardless of obesity status and age group. However, obesity was associated with lower VO2peak in all adults, but not in children with DS. 


PMID- 25462481
TI  - Estimating the prevalence of cerebral palsy in Taiwan: A comparison of different case definitions.
AB  - The estimated prevalence of cerebral palsy (CP) worldwide ranged from 0.74 to 3.6 per 1000 live births according to different studies, which may be due to different data sources and case definitions used. We used a representative sample of one million patients (about 1/23 of total population) covered by Taiwan's National Health Insurance (NHI) to estimate the prevalence using different case definitions. Eight years of NHI Research Database claims data for all children born between 1996 and 2000 were reviewed for CP diagnoses. The estimated prevalence of CP (cases per 1000 live births) varied from 4.1 to 1.3 for different case definitions. For a minimum age of 4 years old at diagnosis, a diagnosis made by specialists (pediatricians and physicians of physical medicine and rehabilitation), and the CP diagnosis was mentioned at least three times in claims data, the mean estimated prevalence of CP was 3.2 (95% CI 2.8-3.7). According to this definition, which is most compatible with previous studies, the estimated prevalence in Taiwan was 3.4 (95% CI 2.8-4.0) for boys and 3.1 (95% CI 2.5-3.7) for girls, significantly higher than that in other countries. Additional studies are needed to determine the reasons of higher prevalence in Taiwan. 


PMID- 25462482
TI  - Activity and participation in children with neurofibromatosis type 1.
AB  - We describe activity and participation in children and youth with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1), and compared an intervention and control group after a strengthening program using the Pediatric Outcomes Data Collection Instrument (PODCI) and the Children's Assessment of Participation and Enjoyment (CAPE). Questionnaires were filled out by parents at baseline, 12-weeks, and 1-year. The intervention group performed a strengthening program twice a week for ten weeks, followed by a 9-month independent program. Thirty-six participants (18 control, 18 intervention) between the ages of 5- and 18-years (mean 10.6 years, SD 4.6 years) were enrolled, and 34 completed the 1-year assessment. There were significant differences between formal and informal participation (p<0.0001) in baseline CAPE scores for the entire cohort. At 12 weeks, PODCI upper extremity function improved in intervention and decreased in controls (p=0.040), while happiness declined in intervention and increased in control (p=0.003). There were no significant differences between control and intervention groups in any of the CAPE or PODCI change scores from baseline to 1-year. Upper extremity function, sport and physical function, comfort/pain and happiness PODCI scores were lower than normative values. The NF1 cohort had low participation in formal active physical and skill-based activities. The companionship and location dimensions suggest participation occurs with family and other relatives in the home or a relative's home and reflects a pattern of social isolation from peers. 


PMID- 25462483
TI  - Numerical estimation in individuals with Down syndrome.
AB  - We investigated numerical estimation in children with Down syndrome (DS) in order to assess whether their pattern of performance is tied to experience (age), overall cognitive level, or specifically impaired. Siegler and Opfer's (2003) number to position task, which requires translating a number into a spatial position on a number line, was administered to a group of 21 children with DS and to two control groups of typically developing children (TD), matched for mental and chronological age. Results suggest that numerical estimation and the developmental transition between logarithm and linear patterns of estimates in children with DS is more similar to that of children with the same mental age than to children with the same chronological age. Moreover linearity was related to the cognitive level in DS while in TD children it was related to the experience level. 


PMID- 25462484
TI  - Low verbal assessment with the Bayley-III.
AB  - Recently, the authors have developed the Bayley-III-NL Low Verbal for developmental assessment of children with language impairment. The Low Verbal version consists of an accommodated cognition scale, and non-accommodated communication and motor scales. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the validity and added value of the Bayley-III-NL Low Verbal for children with a language impairment, in relation to the standard Bayley-III-NL for children without impairment. We administered the Bayley-III Low Verbal to 69 children with language impairment, and the standard Bayley-III-NL to 1132 children without impairments. We used an evaluation form for test administrators and interviews with developmental psychologists to evaluate the suitability of the Low Verbal version for the target group. We analyzed the test results using nonparametric item response theory (IRT) to investigate whether test results can be reasonably compared across the two groups. The results of the IRT analyses support the validity of the Bayley-III-NL Low Verbal: the test items do not suffer from differential item functioning (DIF) across the two groups, and thus measure the ability levels of interest in the same way. The results of the evaluation form and interviews confirm that the Bayley-III-NL Low Verbal has added value for testing children with a language impairment, especially for children up to 36 months old. It is also suitable for children with general developmental delay. We conclude that the Bayley-III-NL Low Verbal can validly assess the cognitive, language, and motor development of young children with a language impairment and is the preferred instrument for this target group. 


PMID- 25462485
TI  - Coupling online control and inhibitory systems in children with Developmental Coordination Disorder: Goal-directed reaching.
AB  - For children with Developmental Coordination Disorder (DCD), the real-time coupling between frontal executive function and online motor control has not been explored despite reported deficits in each domain. The aim of the present study was to investigate how children with DCD enlist online control under task constraints that compel the need for inhibitory control. A total of 129 school children were sampled from mainstream primary schools. Forty-two children who met research criteria for DCD were compared with 87 typically developing controls on a modified double-jump reaching task. Children within each skill group were divided into three age bands: younger (6-7 years), mid-aged (8-9), and older (10-12). Online control was compared between groups as a function of trial type (non-jump, jump, anti-jump). Overall, results showed that while movement times were similar between skill groups under simple task constraints (non-jump), on perturbation (or jump) trials the DCD group were significantly slower than controls and corrected trajectories later. Critically, the DCD group was further disadvantaged by anti-jump trials where inhibitory control was required; however, this effect reduced with age. While coupling online control and executive systems is not well developed in younger and mid-aged children, there is evidence of age-appropriate coupling in older children. Longitudinal data are needed to clarify this intriguing finding. The theoretical and applied implications of these results are discussed. 


PMID- 25462486
TI  - Psychometric properties of the Chinese Behavior Problems Inventory-01 in children and adolescents with or at risk for intellectual disabilities.
AB  - As the world's most populous country, China is likely to have the highest number of people with intellectual disabilities (ID) in the world. As many people with ID are susceptible to serious and persistent behavior problems, research by Chinese scientists on this public health issue is needed. However, there are only very few reliable Chinese-language behavior assessment instruments for problem behaviors. To fill this gap we translated the Behavior Problems Inventory-01 (BPI-01; Rojahn, Matson, Lott, Esbensen, & Smalls, 2001) into Chinese. The BPI-01 is an informant-based behavior rating instrument that was designed to assess self-injurious behavior (SIB), stereotyped behavior, and aggressive/destructive behavior in individuals with ID. We then assessed the behavior of 222 children and young adults (age range 1.5-21.5 years) with or at risk for ID from three special needs service programs in mainland China. Teachers or staff members, respectively, served as respondents. The Chinese version of the BPI-01 showed good reliability (internal consistency) and good factor validity tested by confirmatory factorial analysis. We conclude that the Chinese version of the BPI-01 can be used for research and clinical evaluation of Chinese children and adolescents with ID. 


PMID- 25462488
TI  - Spelling in oral deaf and hearing dyslexic children: A comparison of phonologically plausible errors.
AB  - A written single word spelling to dictation test and a single word reading test were given to 68 severe-profoundly oral deaf 10-11-year-old children and 20 hearing children with a diagnosis of dyslexia. The literacy scores of the deaf children and the hearing children with dyslexia were lower than expected for children of their age and did not differ from each other. Three quarters of the spelling errors of hearing children with dyslexia compared with just over half the errors of the oral deaf group were phonologically plausible. Expressive vocabulary and speech intelligibility predicted the percentage of phonologically plausible errors in the deaf group only. Implications of findings for the phonological decoding self-teaching model and for supporting literacy development are discussed. 


PMID- 25462487
TI  - Parenting stress and child behavior problems within families of children with developmental disabilities: Transactional relations across 15 years.
AB  - Parents of children with developmental disabilities (DD) are at increased risk of experiencing psychological stress compared to other parents. Children's high levels of internalizing and externalizing problems have been found to contribute to this elevated level of stress. Few studies have considered the reverse direction of effects, however, in families where a child has a DD. The present study investigated transactional relations between child behavior problems and maternal stress within 176 families raising a child with early diagnosed DD. There was evidence of both child-driven and parent-driven effects over the 15-year study period, spanning from early childhood (age 3) to adolescence (age 18), consistent with transactional models of development. Parent-child transactions were found to vary across different life phases and with different domains of behavior problems. 


PMID- 25462489
TI  - Examining the psychometrics of the Psychopathology Inventory for Mentally Retarded Adults-II for individuals with mild and moderate intellectual disabilities.
AB  - With growing recognition of the occurrence of psychological disorders in individuals with intellectual disability (ID), researchers and clinicians alike have placed emphasis on developing measures to assess for psychopathologies in this population. Despite an increased interest in the topic, there is still a dearth of psychometrically robust measures available to assess for psychopathology in adults with mild and moderate ID. The purpose of this study was to examine the psychometric properties of a revised measure for psychopathology in individuals with mild and moderate ID, the Psychopathology Inventory for Mentally Retarded Adults - second edition (PIMRA-II). Internal consistency, inter-rater reliability, and test-retest reliability were investigated. Validity was studied via convergent validity by comparing the PIMRA-II to the Assessment of Dual Diagnosis (ADD) and via discriminate validity by comparing the PIMRA-II to the Social Performance Survey Schedule (SPSS) prosocial scores. Lastly, an exploratory factor analysis was conducted to determine the factor structure of the scale. 


PMID- 25462490
TI  - Persistence of visuo-constructional and executive deficits in adolescents after open-heart surgery.
AB  - AIM: This study assesses whether previously reported performance deficiencies in visuo-constructional and executive functions, using the Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure Test (ROCFT) in pediatric patients with congenital heart disease (CHD), persist into adolescence. METHODS: 53 adolescent CHD patients (mean age 13.7) and 39 healthy controls (mean age 14.1) participated. ROCFT performance was measured by three different scoring methods, focusing either on quantitative (Meyers & Meyers, 1995), qualitative (Wallon & Mesmin, 2009), or both performance aspects (Bernstein & Waber, 1996). Potential confounders (i.e., intelligence and visuomotor integration) and surgery-related risk factors were included in the data analysis. RESULTS: Adolescents with CHD demonstrated immature copy and recall approaches on the ROCFT using the qualitative system by Wallon and Mesmin (p<.001). Memory performance was also predicted by Bernstein and Waber scores (p<.03), whereas group differences were not significant according to the other scoring methods. Intelligence and visuomotor skills, but not surgery-related risk factors, were positively correlated with ROCFT performance (each p<.02). Interpretation: Visuoconstructional and executive deficiencies could be found in adolescent patients with CHD. However, not all ROCFT scoring methods were equally apt to detect group differences: especially the qualitative scoring method developed by Wallon and Mesmin seems sufficiently sensitive to detect long-lasting visuo-constructional and executive deficiencies in CHD patients. 


PMID- 25462491
TI  - The role of physiological arousal in the management of challenging behaviours in individuals with autistic spectrum disorders.
AB  - Challenging behaviours restrict opportunities and choices for people with autistic spectrum disorders (ASD) and frequently lead to inappropriate and costly service interventions. Managing challenging behaviours of people with autism is an important area of research. This paper examines some of the evidence for the role of physiological arousal influencing these behaviours. Evidence from the emerging literature about sensory differences is examined. It is proposed that sensory reactivity is associated with hyperarousal; catatonic type behaviours are associated with low levels of reactivity (hypoarousal). A low arousal approach is proposed as a generalised strategy to managing challenging behaviours with ASD. The use of non-contingent reinforcement and antecedent control strategies are recommended for use with challenging behaviours which have a sensory component. Examples are provided to illustrate the approach. The implications of arousal and the use of physical interventions are discussed. It is proposed that arousal is a construct which has significant heuristic value for researchers and practitioners. 


PMID- 25462492
TI  - Essential components of written behavior treatment plans.
AB  - For the last 25 years, the only empirically determined system to evaluate the content of written behavior analysis plans was developed by Vollmer et al. (1992). For the current study, the content of that earlier system was revised by the first author and submitted to 48 members of the editorial board of the Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis and seven (7) other acknowledged experts on the editorial boards of Behavioral Interventions and Research in Developmental Disabilities. Of 55 recipients, 36 responded. The thirty-six (36) respondents rated each of 28 items from essential to non-essential using a five-point Likert scale. After reviewing the expert panel members' evaluations, we reduced the 28 items to 20 essential components of written behavior treatment plans. The implications of the results were discussed. 


PMID- 25462493
TI  - Long-term outcomes on spatial hearing, speech recognition and receptive vocabulary after sequential bilateral cochlear implantation in children.
AB  - Sequential bilateral cochlear implantation in profoundly deaf children often leads to primary advantages in spatial hearing and speech recognition. It is not yet known how these children develop in the long-term and if these primary advantages will also lead to secondary advantages, e.g. in better language skills. The aim of the present longitudinal cohort study was to assess the long-term effects of sequential bilateral cochlear implantation in children on spatial hearing, speech recognition in quiet and in noise and receptive vocabulary. Twenty-four children with bilateral cochlear implants (BiCIs) were tested 5-6 years after sequential bilateral cochlear implantation. These children received their second implant between 2.4 and 8.5 years of age. Speech and language data were also gathered in a matched reference group of 26 children with a unilateral cochlear implant (UCI). Spatial hearing was assessed with a minimum audible angle (MAA) task with different stimulus types to gain global insight into the effective use of interaural level difference (ILD) and interaural timing difference (ITD) cues. In the long-term, children still showed improvements in spatial acuity. Spatial acuity was highest for ILD cues compared to ITD cues. For speech recognition in quiet and noise, and receptive vocabulary, children with BiCIs had significant higher scores than children with a UCI. Results also indicate that attending a mainstream school has a significant positive effect on speech recognition and receptive vocabulary compared to attending a school for the deaf. Despite of a period of unilateral deafness, children with BiCIs, participating in mainstream education obtained age-appropriate language scores. 


PMID- 25462494
TI  - What is the evidence of impaired motor skills and motor control among children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)? Systematic review of the literature.
AB  - This article presents a review of the studies that have analysed the motor skills of ADHD children without medication and the influence of medication on their motor skills. The following two questions guided the study: What is the evidence of impairment of motor skills and aspects of motor control among children with ADHD aged between 6 and 16 years? What are the effects of ADHD medication on motor skills and motor control? The following keywords were introduced in the main databases: attention disorder and/or ADHD, motor skills and/or handwriting, children, medication. Of the 45 articles retrieved, 30 described motor skills of children with ADHD and 15 articles analysed the influence of ADHD medication on motor skills and motor control. More than half of the children with ADHD have difficulties with gross and fine motor skills. The children with ADHD inattentive subtype seem to present more impairment of fine motor skills, slow reaction time, and online motor control during complex tasks. The proportion of children with ADHD who improved their motor skills to the normal range by using medication varied from 28% to 67% between studies. The children who still show motor deficit while on medication might meet the diagnostic criteria of developmental coordination disorder (DCD). It is important to assess motor skills among children with ADHD because of the risk of reduced participation in activities of daily living that require motor coordination and attention. 


PMID- 25462495
TI  - Child problem behaviours are associated with obesity in parents caring for children with developmental disabilities.
AB  - Epidemiological evidence suggests that obesity and depression are highly co-morbid. In a national cohort study, we examined whether parents caring for children with disabilities were more likely to be classified as obese compared to parents of children without disabilities and if obesity was associated with depressive symptoms or child behaviour characteristics. Using data from the Growing Up in Ireland National Longitudinal Study of Children (2006 to date), 627 parents of children with developmental disabilities were compared with 7941 parents of typically developing children on objectively measured levels of obesity (body mass index >=30kg/m2), depression, health behaviours, chronic health conditions, socio-demographic and child behavioural characteristics. Parents of children with disabilities were more likely to be classified as obese compared to control parents (24.5% vs. 19.6%, p=0.005, Cramer's V<0.1). Depression was not associated with obesity. However, the odds of obesity increased with increasing child problem behaviour (OR 1.05, 95% CI 1.03-1.06). Over half (57%) of obese parents caring for children with disabilities reported trying to lose weight often or very often. This study has confirmed, in a population-based sample, the high risk of obesity in parents caring for children with disabilities after adjusting for the presence of depression and other health behaviours; increasing child problem behaviours were predictive of obesity. Importantly, given the negative health correlates of obesity, it is imperative that health professionals pay attention to weight issues in these parents and support their efforts in managing these issues. 


PMID- 25462497
TI  - Effects of pubertal timing on alcohol and tobacco use in the early adulthood: A longitudinal cohort study in Taiwan.
AB  - We aimed to examine the effects of pubertal timing on adolescents' alcohol and tobacco use from late adolescence to young adulthood. In addition, we separately explored associative factors of the use of these substances stratified by pubertal timings. A longitudinal cohort of 7th- and 9th-grade students was recruited in Taiwan. Pubertal timing was classified according to the Pubertal Developmental Scale. Effects of pubertal timing on self-reported drinking and smoking at age 20 were evaluated using generalized estimating equation analysis. Furthermore, we assessed the predictive roles of parental monitoring, parent-child relationships, peer influence, and school adhesion among participants, stratified by pubertal timing using multiple logistic regression analysis. A survey of 2290 participants was analyzed, with 51.2% being female. The smoking rate is 19.2% (adjusted odds ratio [OR] 1.43, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.03-2.00) and the alcohol drinking rate is 41.6% (adjusted OR 1.34, 95% CI 1.07-1.69) for early maturing adolescents as compared to 12.3% and 41.6% respectively for on-time peers. A satisfactory parent-child relationship is a protective factor and strict parental monitoring is a risk factor for future tobacco and alcohol use in logistic regression analyses. Early maturation confers risk for cigarette smoking and alcohol consumption in young adulthood. Health professionals and parents should be advised of the potential associative factors with future substance use among adolescents with different maturation tempo. Emphasis could be placed on promoting positive parenting strategies and intra-familial interactions. 


PMID- 25462496
TI  - Related factors and incidence risk of acute myocardial infarction among the people with disability: A national population-based study.
AB  - Cardiovascular disease has always been a leading cause of death worldwide. Because the mobility of people with disability is relatively decreased, their risk of cardiovascular disease is increased. This study investigated the risks and relevant factors of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) among people with disability. This is a retrospective cohort study based on secondary data analysis. This study focused on 798,328 people with disability who were aged 35 and above during 2002-2008 and were registered in the National Disability Registration Database; the relevant medical data from 2000 to 2011 were acquired from the National Health Insurance Research Database. A Cox proportional hazards model was adopted for analyzing the relative AMI risks among different disability types and finding latent risk factors. The results indicated that the AMI incidence rate (per 1000 patient-years) among people with disability was 2.48. Men had an AMI incidence rate of 2.68 per 1000 patient-years, which was significantly higher than that of women (2.21; p<.05). The AMI risk for people with mental disabilities was 0.76 times the risk for people with physical disabilities (95% confidence interval [CI]=0.71-0.82). The AMI risk for people with profound disabilities was 2.04 times (95% CI=1.93-2.16) the risk for people with mild disabilities. AMI risk increased with age. People with disability aged 65 and above had an AMI risk that was 5.01-6.03 times the risk for people with disability aged below 45. Disabled indigenous people had a relatively higher AMI risk (HR=1.35, 95% CI=1.19-1.52). The AMI risk for people with disability with a Charlson comorbidity index (CCI) of 4 and above was 5.89 times (95% CI=5.56-6.25) the risk for those with a CCI of 0. Compared with people with physical disabilities, people with visual impairment and people with dysfunctional primary organs had significantly higher AMI risks (HR=1.15; HR=1.66). This study found that people with disability who were male, aged 65 and above, married, indigenous, with physical disabilities, with high comorbidity, or with high disability levels had relatively higher AMI risks than other people with disability. The research outcomes can be used as references by public health authorities to improve the engagement of people with disability in AMI-prevention health services. 


PMID- 25462498
TI  - Is the impairment in temporal allocation of visual attention in children with ADHD related to a developmental delay or a structural cognitive deficit?
AB  - We investigated the temporal allocation of visual attention in 11-year-old children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) by comparing their attentional blink (AB) parameters (duration, amplitude and minimum performance) with those observed in three groups of healthy control participants (8-year-olds, 11-year-olds and adults). The AB is a marker of impaired ability to detect a second target following the identification of a first target when both appear randomly within a rapid sequence of distractor items. Our results showed developmental effects; with age, the AB duration decreased and the AB minimum moved to shorter lag times. Importantly, 11-year old children with ADHD presented much the same similar AB patterns (in terms of duration and minimum position) as the healthy 8-year-old controls. Our results support the hypothesis whereby impaired allocation of temporal selective attention in children with ADHD is due to a developmental delay and not a specific cognitive deficit. 


PMID- 25462499
TI  - Augmented reality-based self-facial modeling to promote the emotional expression and social skills of adolescents with autism spectrum disorders.
AB  - Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are characterized by a reduced ability to understand the emotions of other people; this ability involves recognizing facial expressions. This study assessed the possibility of enabling three adolescents with ASD to become aware of facial expressions observed in situations in a school setting simulated using augmented reality (AR) technology. The AR system provided three-dimensional (3-D) animations of six basic facial expressions overlaid on participant faces to facilitate practicing emotional judgments and social skills. Based on the multiple baseline design across subjects, the data indicated that AR intervention can improve the appropriate recognition and response to facial emotional expressions seen in the situational task. 


PMID- 25462500
TI  - Exposure to aggressive behaviour and burnout in direct support providers: The role of positive work factors.
AB  - Many direct support providers (DSPs) are exposed to aggressive behaviour in their work supporting adults with developmental disabilities service recipients. This is a work environment factor that has been linked to job burnout. The objective of this study was to examine the impact of positive work factors on emotional exhaustion (EE) among DSPs who are exposed to aggressive behaviour. Survey responses from 671 DSPs who were working in community service settings for adults with developmental disabilities, and were exposed to aggressive behaviour at least monthly were examined. Hierarchical linear regression examined the direct contribution and moderating role of positive work factors (self-efficacy for dealing with aggression and work contributions) on EE measured with the Maslach Burnout Inventory-Human Services Survey, after controlling for demographics, occupational variables, exposure to aggression and negative emotional reactions to aggression. Results showed that younger age, more experience, more depression/anger emotions in response to aggression, lower self-efficacy and low positive work contributions were significantly associated with EE. Positive work motivation was a moderator of exposure to aggression and EE. When work motivations were low, DSPs were more negatively affected by higher exposure to aggression. These findings suggest that in addition to addressing the negative emotional reactions to the aggressive behaviour encountered at work, it is also important to foster positive work factors which may be protective against EE. 


PMID- 25462501
TI  - Effect of the angle of shoulder flexion on the reach trajectory of children with spastic cerebral palsy.
AB  - Many children with cerebral palsy (CP) use a wheelchair during activities of daily living and often extend their hand upward and downward to reach objects in a seated position in a wheelchair. However, the effect of shoulder position on reaching movements of children with CP is not established. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of the angle of shoulder flexion on the reach trajectory of children with spastic CP. Seven children with mild CP [Manual Ability Classification System (MACS) levels I-II], five children with severe CP (MACS levels III-V) and six typically developing (TD) children participated. We prepared the device to have a top board with variable tilting angle in order to reduce the effect of gravity imposing on reaching movements. By using this device, the subjects could extend their arm by sliding it on the board to push a target button. The reaching movements were performed with the more affected hand at three angles (60 degrees , 90 degrees  and 120 degrees ) of shoulder flexion and captured using a camera motion analysis system. Subjects in the TD and mild CP groups reached the target at 60 degrees , 90 degrees  and 120 degrees  of shoulder flexion. Subjects of the severe CP group reached the target at 60 degrees  and 90 degrees  of shoulder flexion, but two of the subjects could not reach the target at 120 degrees  of shoulder flexion. The TD and mild CP groups showed smooth and almost straight trajectories at all three angles of shoulder flexion; however, the reach trajectory in the subjects with severe CP changed with the angle of shoulder flexion. A large angle of shoulder flexion induced great outward deviation in the trajectory. These findings suggest that the difficulty of the reaching task is changed depending on the shoulder joint angle in children with severe CP and that therapeutic interventions for children with severe CP should be provided in a manner appropriate for the shoulder joint angle. 


PMID- 25462502
TI  - Stereotyped behaviors predicting self-injurious behavior in individuals with intellectual disabilities.
AB  - We examined the relation between stereotyped behavior and self-injurious behavior (SIB) for 1871 individuals with intellectual disabilities who had a score of >0 on the Behavior Problem Inventory (BPI-01; Rojahn et al., 2001). We report three main findings: First, structural equation modeling techniques (SEM) revealed that the BPI-01stereotyped behavior subscale scores predicted BPI-01 SIB subscale scores. Second, when stereotyped behavior was modeled as a predictor of SIB, mixture-modeling techniques revealed two groups of individuals: one in which stereotyped behavior was a strong, statistically significant predictor of SIB (69% of the sample), and another one in which stereotyped behavior was not a predictor of SIB (31%). Finally, two specific stereotyped behavior topographies (i.e., body rocking and yelling) were identified that significantly predicted five different SIB topographies (i.e., self-biting, head hitting, body hitting, self-pinching, and hair pulling). Results are discussed in terms of future research needed to identify bio-behavioral variables correlated with cases of SIB that can, and cannot, be predicted by the presence of stereotyped behavior. 


PMID- 25462503
TI  - Associations of physical activity with fatness and fitness in adolescents with Down syndrome: The UP&DOWN study.
AB  - The aim of the present study was to examine the associations of objectively measured physical activity (PA) with several markers of fatness and fitness in a relatively large sample of adolescents with Down syndrome (DS). This study comprised a total of 100 adolescents with DS (37 females) aged 11-20 years-old, and a sex-matched sample of 100 adolescents without disabilities, participating in the UP&DOWN study. The ALPHA health-related fitness test battery for adolescents was used to assess fatness and fitness. PA was measured by accelerometry. Adolescents with DS had higher fatness and significantly lower fitness levels in all variables measured than adolescents without DS (all p<0.05). Moderate-to-large effects were observed in fatness variables (d=0.65-1.42), but particularly large values were found in fitness variables (d=2.05-2.43). In addition, PA levels was not associated with fatness variables, whereas total PA and vigorous PA were associated with all fitness variables (p<0.05), and moderate-vigorous PA (MVPA) was associated with muscular fitness (p<0.05), after adjusting for potential confounders. Further analysis revealed that there were differences in fitness by tertiles of vigorous PA between the lowest and the highest groups in all fitness variables (all p<0.05). However, no significant differences were found in fitness by tertiles of MVPA according with PA guidelines (>=60min in MVPA). Our findings indicate that PA levels are not associated with fatness variables, whereas high PA levels, in particular vigorous PA, are positively associated with high fitness in adolescents with DS. 


PMID- 25462504
TI  - The mediating effect of affective stigma between face concern and general mental health - The case of Chinese caregivers of children with intellectual disability.
AB  - An earlier study revealed that the mental health of caregivers of children with intellectual disability is related to the affective dimension of affiliated stigma, loss of face and anxiety level. However, how cultural values such as face concern interplay with stigma remains largely unknown. This extended study goes further to test the mediating role of affective stigma on two slightly different pathway models between the face concern and the mental health outcome of 211 caregivers in two Chinese cities, against the required standards and procedure of being a mediator. The mediating effect of affective stigma is confirmed by meeting Baron and Kenny's required standards. Two viable path models are worked out: one model with anxiety as a co-mediating variable successfully accounts for 17% more of the variance on the outcome than another model without anxiety, explaining a total of 56% of the variance. This provides empirical evidence for the first time that cultural values such as face value do not influence directly one's mental health; but works through the experience of real stigma or anticipated stigma situations, to induce anxiety and worsen mental health. Practitioners may need to employ anti-stigma and anxiety reduction strategy in promoting better mental health and to explore cultural elements that can be tapped on for better coping. 


PMID- 25462505
TI  - The development and discussion of computerized visual perception assessment tool for Chinese characters structures - Concurrent estimation of the overall ability and the domain ability in item response theory approach.
AB  - Visual perception is the fundamental skill required for a child to recognize words, and to read and write. There was no visual perception assessment tool developed for preschool children based on Chinese characters in Taiwan. The purposes were to develop the computerized visual perception assessment tool for Chinese Characters Structures and to explore the psychometrical characteristic of assessment tool. This study adopted purposive sampling. The study evaluated 551 kindergarten-age children (293 boys, 258 girls) ranging from 46 to 81 months of age. The test instrument used in this study consisted of three subtests and 58 items, including tests of basic strokes, single-component characters, and compound characters. Based on the results of model fit analysis, the higher-order item response theory was used to estimate the performance in visual perception, basic strokes, single-component characters, and compound characters simultaneously. Analyses of variance were used to detect significant difference in age groups and gender groups. The difficulty of identifying items in a visual perception test ranged from -2 to 1. The visual perception ability of 4- to 6-year-old children ranged from -1.66 to 2.19. Gender did not have significant effects on performance. However, there were significant differences among the different age groups. The performance of 6-year-olds was better than that of 5-year-olds, which was better than that of 4-year-olds. This study obtained detailed diagnostic scores by using a higher-order item response theory model to understand the visual perception of basic strokes, single-component characters, and compound characters. Further statistical analysis showed that, for basic strokes and compound characters, girls performed better than did boys; there also were differences within each age group. For single-component characters, there was no difference in performance between boys and girls. However, again the performance of 6-year-olds was better than that of 4-year-olds, but there were no statistical differences between the performance of 5-year-olds and 6-year-olds. Results of tests with basic strokes, single-component characters and compound characters tests had good reliability and validity. Therefore, it can be apply to diagnose the problem of visual perception at preschool. 


PMID- 25462506
TI  - Emotional and behavioural difficulties in children referred for learning disabilities from two Arab countries: A cross-cultural examination of the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire.
AB  - The Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ) is a widely used child mental health questionnaire with five hypothesized subscales. There is theoretical and preliminary empirical support for combining the SDQ's hypothesized emotional and peer subscales into an 'internalizing' subscale and the hypothesized behavioural and hyperactivity subscales into an 'externalizing' subscale (alongside the fifth prosocial subscale). We examined both structures using the teacher informant version data from two Arab countries, namely Saudi Arabia (323) and Oman (439). Multigroup CFAs based on structural equation modelling revealed culture invariance for the SDQ. The three-factor model showed a better description of the SDQ structure. The analysis also revealed gender invariance for the SDQ three and five factor models in both the Omani and Saudi samples. There were gender differences in all the three and five factors between the Saudi and Omani samples. 


PMID- 25462507
TI  - A quantitative examination of punishment research.
AB  - The current review examined 368 articles, published between 1967 and 2013, which evaluated punishment-based procedures for the treatment of challenging behavior among persons with developmental disabilities and quantitatively analyzed: (a) the amount of research that has assessed different types of punishment procedures; (b) the characteristics of the participants, behaviors, and treatments included in these studies, and (c) the relative efficacy of the various punishment procedures in general and with regard to the inclusion of reinforcement-based components, method of treatment selection and development, and function of the targeted challenging behaviors. Further, the study evaluated the included studies for the presence of important quality indicators. It was intended that such an analysis would provide a useful overview of the extant research on punishment procedures as a behavior reduction technique. Suggestions regarding research methodology and areas for further investigation are made for future research evaluating punishment-based interventions. 


PMID- 25462508
TI  - Association of 5-HT2A receptor gene polymorphisms with gastrointestinal disorders in Egyptian children with autistic disorder.
AB  - Gastrointestinal disturbances (GID) are frequently reported in children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Recently, mounting evidence suggests that there may be a genetic link for autism with gastrointestinal disturbances. We aimed to investigate whether there were any association between the -1438A/G, 102T/C and His452Tyr polymorphisms of the serotonin 2A receptor gene (5-HT2A) in Egyptian children with ASD and GID. Eighty children with autistic disorder and 100 healthy control children were examined. -1438A/G, 102T/C and His452Tyr polymorphisms of 5-HT2A were genotyped by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) method. Significant increase of the G allele and the GG genotype of the -1438A/G polymorphism was observed in children with autism than control, but there were no significant differences in the frequencies either of the 102T/C genotype or His452Tyr genotype between the two groups. There was a significant increase of homozygote A allele of the -1438A/G and CC genotype of the 102T/C polymorphism in ASD children with GID. This study supports the possible involvement of the 5-HT2A receptor in the development of ASD and associated GID. 


PMID- 25462509
TI  - Sociodemographic characteristics and health-related factors affecting the use of Pap smear screening among women with mental disabilities in Taiwan.
AB  - This study examined the use of the Pap cervical cancer screening test among women with mental disabilities in Taiwan and analyzed factors related thereto. Data were obtained from three national databases in Taiwan: the 2008 database of physically and mentally disabled persons from the Ministry of the Interior, 2007-2008 Pap smear test data from the Health Promotion Administration, and claims data from the National Health Insurance Research Database. The study subjects included 49,642 Taiwanese women aged >=30 years with mental disabilities. Besides descriptive and bivariate analyses, logistic regression analysis was also performed to examine factors affecting Pap smear use. In 2007-2008, Taiwanese women with mental disabilities had a Pap screening rate of 11.05%. Age, income, education, marital status, catastrophic illness/injury, relevant chronic illnesses, and severity of disability were identified as factors affecting their Pap smear use. Age and severity of disability were negatively correlated with Pap screening, with the odds of screening being 0.37 times as high in >=70-year-olds as in 30-39-year-olds and 0.49 times as high for very severe disability as for mild disability. Income was positively correlated with Pap screening. Being married (OR=2.55) or divorced or widowed (OR=2.40) relative to being unmarried, and having a catastrophic illness/injury (OR=1.13), cancer (OR=1.47), or diabetes (OR=1.25), were associated with greater odds of screening. In Taiwan, women with mental disabilities receive Pap smears at a far lower rate than women in general. 


PMID- 25462510
TI  - Screening for intellectual disability in persons with a substance abuse problem: Exploring the validity of the Hayes Ability Screening Index in a Dutch-speaking sample.
AB  - There is an increasing interest in screening instruments to detect intellectual disability (ID) in a quick and accurate way in mental health services as well as in the criminal justice system in order to provide appropriate support for people with undetected needs caused by ID. An instrument that has been proven to be useful in both settings is the Hayes Ability Screening Index (HASI). This study assessed the validity of the Dutch version of the HASI in persons with a substance abuse problem residing in mental health services, whether or not mandated to treatment by court order. The HASI was conducted along with the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale III as the criterion for validity to 90 participants. Additionally, the influence of psychiatric disorder and medication use on the HASI result was examined. A significant positive relationship was found between the two instruments, demonstrating convergent validity. Using a Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analysis, the discriminative ability of the HASI with a cut-off score of 85 was found to be adequate, yielding in a good balance between sensitivity and specificity. The HASI was not distorted by the presence of the substance abuse problem or other psychiatric illnesses and medication did not influence the HASI scores in this study. These findings indicate that the HASI provides a time-efficient and resource-conscious way to detect ID in persons with a substance problem, thus addressing a critical need in mental health settings. 


PMID- 25462511
TI  - Evaluation of the implementation and impact of an integrated prevention model on the academic progress of students with disabilities.
AB  - In this paper we report on the implementation and impact of an integrated prevention model (Achievement for All - AfA) to improve the educational experiences and outcomes of students with disabilities. It comprises three inter-related strands: assessment, tracking and intervention; structured conversations with parents; and, developing provision for wider outcomes. Participants were 12,038 students with disabilities from 431 mainstream primary and secondary schools across 10 Local Authorities in England involved in the two-year AfA pilot. Pre- and post-test data on academic attainment in English and Maths were compared with national data on academic progress for students with and without disabilities over an equivalent period of time. School-level contextual and implementation data and student-level socio-demographic and psychosocial data were also collected. Four hypotheses were tested regarding the impact of AfA on academic attainment in English (H1) and Maths (H2); the influence of aspects of the implementation context and processes (H3); and individual differences between students (H4). Our findings are discussed in relation to the identification and validation of critical intervention components and standards for assessing the practical significance of attempts to improve outcomes for students. 


PMID- 25462512
TI  - The prevalence of peripheral arterial disease in middle-aged people with intellectual disabilities.
AB  - Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is a manifestation of atherosclerosis below the bifurcation of the abdominal aorta. PAD increases the risk of cardiovascular disease and associated mortality. Little is known about the prevalence of PAD in middle-aged persons with intellectual disabilities (ID). We determined the prevalence of PAD among people with ID aged 40-59 years. Independent associations between PAD and patient and care characteristics were explored. A multi-center cross-sectional observational study was conducted in four care providing agencies for people with ID in the Netherlands. We included 407 participants with mild to profound ID aged 40-59 years, receiving medical care from specialized ID physicians. The ankle-brachial index was used to diagnose PAD. The overall prevalence of PAD was 8.4% (95% CI=6.0-11.4%), with no significant differences between age groups 40-49 years (8.2%) and 50-59 years (8.5%). None of the participants had been diagnosed with PAD prior to this study and only one participant with PAD had PAD-related symptoms (1/34). Wheelchair dependence was independently associated with PAD (OR=5.43). Prevalence of PAD among people with ID is high, which is especially remarkable in age group 40-49 years. Physicians need to be aware of this high prevalence of PAD and the increased risk of cardiovascular disease in (young) people with ID. 


PMID- 25462513
TI  - Are early onset aging conditions correlated to daily activity functions in youth and adults with Down syndrome?
AB  - This study aims to answer the research question of "Are early onset aging conditions correlated to daily activity functions in youth and adults with Down syndrome (DS)?" A cross-sectional survey was employed to recruit 216 individuals with DS over 15 years of age in the analyses. A structured questionnaire included demographic data, brief self-reported aging conditions, Dementia Screening Questionnaire for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities (DSQIID) and activity of daily living (ADL) scales were completed by the primary caregivers who were well-suited for providing information on the functioning conditions of the DS individuals. Results showed that the most five frequent aging conditions (sometimes, usually and always) included frailty (20.2%), vision problem (15.8%), loss of language ability (15.3%), sleep problem (14.9%) and memory impairment (14.5%). Other onset aging conditions included more chronic diseases (13.9%), hearing loss (13%), chewing ability and tooth loss (12.5%), incontinence (11.1%), depressive syndrome (7.7%), falls and gait disorder (7.2%), loss of taste and smell (7.2%). The data also showed scores of DSQIID, onset aging conditions and ADL has significant relationships each other in Pearson's correlation tests. Finally, multiple linear regression analyses indicated onset aging conditions (beta=-0.735, p<0.001) can significantly predicted the variation in ADL scores after adjusting other factors (R2=0.381). This study suggests that the authority should initiate early intervention programs aim to improve healthy aging and ADL functions for people with DS. 


PMID- 25462514
TI  - Validity and reliability of the Spanish version of the diagnostic assessment for the severely handicapped (DASH-II).
AB  - BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The DASH-II scale is a specific instrument for measuring psychopathological symptoms in people with severe and profound intellectual disability (ID). The aim of the study is the validation of the Spanish version, evaluating its reliability and validity. At the same time we examine the prevalence of mental disorders in our sample. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Two reviewers independently passed the Spanish version of the DASH-II (DASH-II-S) to 83 users to establish inter-rater reliability. To assess inter-rater reliability or test-retest reliability, fifty participants were reassessed by the same rater within 7 days. RESULTS: DASH-II-S showed good internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha=0.879) and good reliability, both intra and inter-rater reliability. The prevalence of psychopathology in the sample is 94%, and the use of psychotropic drugs is also high, with 61.4% receiving one or more antipsychotics. CONCLUSIONS: DASH-II-S is a valid and reliable instrument that can be used for the assessment of psychopathology in people with ID. The translated version retains the psychometric properties of the original English version. Moreover, the high prevalence of mental disorders in this population may explain the widespread use of psychotropic drugs, but it forces us to continuous reassessment and justification. 


PMID- 25462515
TI  - Psychometric properties of the Italian version of the Developmental Coordination Disorder Questionnaire (DCDQ-Italian).
AB  - A valid tool that contributes to the diagnosis of Developmental Coordination Disorder (DCD) is represented by the Developmental Coordination Disorder Questionnaire 2007 (DCDQ'07). Recently we developed the Italian version of DCDQ (DCDQ-Italian). The aim of this study was to further analyze the psychometric properties in a sample of Italian school children aged 5-12 years and to establish cut-off scores with respect to age groups. A total of 698 parents completed the DCDQ-Italian and 45 of them repeated it after 2 weeks for test-retest reliability. One hundred and seventeen children were tested using the Movement Assessment Battery for Children. Confirmatory factor analysis supported this version to be consistent with the original. Cronbach's alpha for the total score was 0.89 and test-retest reliability was 0.88. Two-ways ANOVA for total and single subscales showed a significant main effect for age group only and not for gender. Sensitivity and specificity for our community based sample were 59% and 65% respectively, considering the cut-off scores for the 15th percentile of M-ABC and increasing when age groups were taken into account (ROC curve=0.62). The agreement with the original was good if 15th is considered. This is the first study on the psychometric property of DCDQ in a community sample of Italian children. The DCDQ-Italian could be used as a screening tool for motor coordination difficulties in Italian children. Slight differences in cut-offs should be considered when using this version. 


PMID- 25462517
TI  - Music lessons are associated with increased verbal memory in individuals with Williams syndrome.
AB  - Williams syndrome (WS) is a genetic disorder characterized by intellectual delay and an affinity for music. It has been previously shown that familiar music can enhance verbal memory in individuals with WS who have had music training. There is also evidence that unfamiliar, or novel, music may also improve cognitive recall. This study was designed to examine if a novel melody could also enhance verbal memory in individuals with WS, and to more fully characterize music training in this population. We presented spoken or sung sentences that described an animal and its group name to 44 individuals with WS, and then tested their immediate and delayed memory using both recall and multiple choice formats. Those with formal music training (average duration of training 41/2 years) scored significantly higher on both the spoken and sung recall items, as well as on the spoken multiple choice items, than those with no music training. Music therapy, music enjoyment, age, and Verbal IQ did not impact performance on the memory tasks. These findings provide further evidence that formal music lessons may impact the neurological pathways associated with verbal memory in individuals with WS, consistent with findings in typically developing individuals. 


PMID- 25462516
TI  - Predictors of participation of adolescents with cerebral palsy: A European multi-centre longitudinal study.
AB  - We investigated whether childhood factors that are amenable to intervention (parenting stress, child psychological problems and pain) predicted participation in daily activities and social roles of adolescents with cerebral palsy (CP). We randomly selected 1174 children aged 8-12 years from eight population-based registers of children with CP in six European countries; 743 (63%) agreed to participate. One further region recruited 75 children from multiple sources. These 818 children were visited at home at age 8-12 years, 594 (73%) agreed to follow-up at age 13-17 years. We used the following measures: parent reported stress (Parenting Stress Index Short Form), their child's psychological difficulties (Strength and Difficulties Questionnaire) and frequency and severity of pain; either child or parent reported the child's participation (LIFE Habits questionnaire). We fitted a structural equation model to each of the participation domains, regressing participation in childhood and adolescence on parenting stress, child psychological problems and pain, and regressing adolescent factors on the corresponding childhood factors; models were adjusted for impairment, region, age and gender. Pain in childhood predicted restricted adolescent participation in all domains except Mealtimes and Communication (standardized total indirect effects beta -0.05 to -0.18, 0.01<p<0.05 to p<0.001, depending on domain). Psychological problems in childhood predicted restricted adolescent participation in all domains of social roles, and in Personal Care and Communication (beta -0.07 to -0.17, 0.001<p<0.01 to p<0.001). Parenting stress in childhood predicted restricted adolescent participation in Health Hygiene, Mobility and Relationships (beta -0.07 to -0.18, 0.001<p<0.01 to p<0.001). These childhood factors predicted adolescent participation largely via their effects on childhood participation; though in some domains early psychological problems and parenting stress in childhood predicted adolescent participation largely through their persistence into adolescence. We conclude that participation of adolescents with CP was predicted by early modifiable factors related to the child and family. Interventions for reduction of pain, psychological difficulties and parenting stress in childhood are justified not only for their intrinsic value, but also for probable benefits to childhood and adolescent participation. 


PMID- 25462518
TI  - Physical activity levels of adolescents with and without intellectual disabilities during physical education and recess.
AB  - To compare physical activity levels in adolescents with and without intellectual disabilities during physical education and recess. Forty adolescents diagnosed with intellectual disabilities (inclusive classrooms, n=20; self-contained classrooms, n=20) and 40 age-matched typically developing peers (general classrooms) participated. All participants wore an Actigraph GT1M accelerometer for 5 consecutive weekdays during school hours. Three groups of adolescents were similarly active during physical education; however, adolescents with intellectual disabilities in self-contained classrooms were less active during recess than did the other two groups. In addition, they spent less percentage of time in moderate-to-vigorous physical activity during recess than did the typically developing adolescents. An inclusive, structured, and supportive environment promotes physical activity engagement in adolescents with intellectual disabilities. 


PMID- 25462519
TI  - Assessing effortful control in typical and atypical development: Are questionnaires and neuropsychological measures interchangeable? A latent-variable analysis.
AB  - OBJECTIVE: Effortful control (EC), the self-regulation component of temperament, is traditionally measured using questionnaires. Through the years, several neuropsychological measures originating from the cognitive psychology and the executive function (EF) literature have been introduced in the domain of temperament research to tap EC. Although this is not particularly surprising, given the conceptual overlap between EC and EF, it remains unclear whether EC questionnaires and neuropsychological EF tasks can really be used interchangeably when measuring EC. The current study addressed two important aspects in evaluating the interchangeability of both types of measures, that is: (a) do they measure the same construct? and (b) do they give the same results when comparing clinical populations? METHOD: Three EC questionnaires, two inhibitory control tasks, and two attentional control tasks were administered in 148 typically developing children, 30 children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and 31 children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). All children were between 10 and 15 years of age and had a full scale IQ of 80 or higher. RESULTS: Confirmatory factor analyses revealed that the questionnaires and EF tasks do not capture the same underlying latent variable(s). Groups could not be differentiated from each other based on their performance on EF tasks, whereas significant group differences were found for all EC-reports. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, our findings show more differences than commonalities between the EC questionnaires and EF tasks and, consequently, suggest that both types of measures should not be used interchangeably. 


PMID- 25462520
TI  - Validity and reliability of the INICO-FEAPS Scale: An assessment of quality of life for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities.
AB  - This paper documents the validation of a comprehensive scale designed to assess quality-of-life related personal outcomes for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities who receive support in social organizations. The INICO-FEAPS Scale was administered to 1627 people whose ages ranged between 16 and 72 years old. The instrument comprises 72 parallel items organized around eight quality-of-life domains in each of the two forms: a self-report and a report by others. Several internal consistence indexes showed a good reliability of the scale. CFA was used to compare the goodness-of-fit to the data of alternative models. The eight-correlated first-order factors showed the best fit to the data in comparison to the unidimensional solution and hierarchical models. The instrument serves as a helpful tool for organizations to operate as bridges to the community, develop person-centered planning and individualized support, and implement evidence-based practices for quality improvement. 


PMID- 25462521
TI  - Assessing the bullying and victimisation experiences of children with special educational needs in mainstream schools: Development and validation of the Bullying Behaviour and Experience Scale.
AB  - Children with special educational needs (SEN) are more likely to experience victimisation at school and there is some evidence to suggest that these children are also more likely to engage in bullying behaviours; however, no measure of bullying experiences has been designed specifically for use with these children. The Bullying Behaviour and Experiences Scale (BBES) was specifically developed as a self-report measure of victimisation and bullying behaviour for children with SEN. This study examines the initial psychometric properties of the BBES using a sample of 348 children (67 of which had SEN, mean age=10 years), and compares the incidence of both victimisation and bullying in children with SEN to their peers, controlling for behavioural and emotional difficulties. Overall, the BBES showed favourable psychometric properties using multi-group confirmatory factor analyses and differential item functioning. Comparing the frequency of victimisation and bullying using the BBES showed that children with SEN were not more likely to experience victimisation compared to their peers but when extant behavioural and emotional difficulties were controlled for then they were significantly more likely to report victimisation. Conversely, children with SEN were more likely to report bullying compared to their peers, but this effect disappeared when extant behavioural and emotional difficulties were controlled. Overall, the BBES appears to be a promising measure of victimisation and bullying for children with SEN. This study also highlights the need to consider SEN status independently of behavioural and emotional problems to help understand the nature and extent of bullying and victimisation in this important population of children. 


PMID- 25462523
TI  - Spontaneous improvement in oculomotor function of children with cerebral palsy.
AB  - Eye movements are essential to get a clear vision of moving objects. In the present study, we assessed quantitatively the oculomotor deficits of children with cerebral palsy (CP). We recorded eye movements of 51 children with cerebral palsy (aged 5-16 years) with relatively mild motor impairment and compared their performance with age-matched control and premature children. Overall eye movements of children with CP are unexpectedly close to those of controls even though some oculomotor parameters are biased by the side of hemiplegia. Importantly, the difference in performance between children with CP and controls decreases with age, demonstrating that the oculomotor function of children with CP develops as fast as or even faster than controls for some visual tracking parameters. That is, oculomotor function spontaneously improves over the course of childhood. This evolution highlights the ability of lesioned brain of children with CP to compensate for impaired motor function beyond what would be achieved by normal development on its own. 


PMID- 25462522
TI  - For fathers raising children with autism, do coping strategies mediate or moderate the relationship between parenting stress and quality of life?
AB  - In response to the dramatic change in the perception of fatherhood and the significant expansion in fatherhood research, this study came to fill the gap in literature and examine the possible mediation and moderation effects of coping in the relationship between fathers' of children with autism parenting stress and quality of life (QoL). Mediation and moderation effects were examined using multiple programs and software which included hierarchical regression, structural equation modeling and special Macros added to the analysis programs to confirm the findings. None of the investigated coping strategies could mediate or moderate the stress-QoL relationship among the 101 participating fathers. This study provides interesting information on how the stress-coping-QoL relationship among fathers of children with autism can be affected by the nature of their stress provoking situation, their individual characteristics, the environment and its demands and resources, and the way fathers perceive and apply their coping responses. 


PMID- 25462524
TI  - Teaching individuals with intellectual disability to email across multiple device platforms.
AB  - The purpose of this study was to examine the use of email by people with intellectual disability across multiple technological devices or platforms. Four individuals with intellectual disability participated in this study. Participants were taught how to access and send an email on a Windows desktop computer, laptop, and an iPad tablet device. Results indicated a functional relation. All participants acquired and generalized sending and receiving an email from multiple platforms. Conclusions are discussed about the importance of empowering people with intellectual disability by providing multiple means of expression, including the ability to communicate effectively using a variety of devices. 


PMID- 25462525
TI  - Directing collagen fibers using counter-rotating cone extrusion.
AB  - The bio-inspired engineering of tissue equivalents should take into account anisotropic morphology and the mechanical properties of the extracellular matrix. This especially applies to collagen fibrils, which have various, but highly defined, orientations throughout tissues and organs. There are several methods available to control the alignment of soluble collagen monomers, but the options to direct native insoluble collagen fibers are limited. Here we apply a controlled counter-rotating cone extrusion technology to engineer tubular collagen constructs with defined anisotropy. Driven by diverging inner and outer cone rotation speeds, collagen fibrils from bovine skin were extruded and precipitated onto mandrels as tubes with oriented fibers and bundles, as examined by second harmonic generation microscopy and quantitative image analysis. A clear correlation was found whereby the direction and extent of collagen fiber alignment during extrusion were a function of the shear forces caused by a combination of the cone rotation and flow direction. A gradual change in the fiber direction, spanning +50 to -40 degrees , was observed throughout the sections of the sample, with an average decrease ranging from 2.3 to 2.6 degrees  every 10MUm. By varying the cone speeds, the collagen constructs showed differences in elasticity and toughness, spanning 900-2000kPa and 19-35mJ, respectively. Rotational extrusion presents an enabling technology to create and control the (an)isotropic architecture of collagen constructs for application in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.  


PMID- 25462526
TI  - Visible-light-initiated hydrogels preserving cartilage extracellular signaling for inducing chondrogenesis of mesenchymal stem cells.
AB  - Hydrogels have a unique opportunity to regenerate damaged cartilage tissues by introducing mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in a highly swollen environment similar to articular cartilage. During cartilage development, collagen-cell interactions play an important role in mediating early mesenchymal condensation and chondrogenesis with transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) stimulation. Here, a hydrogel environment that can enhance cell-matrix interactions and chondrogenesis by stabilizing type-II collagen (Col II) and TGF-beta1 into photopolymerizable (methacrylated) chitosan (MeGC) with simple entrapment and affinity binding is demonstrated. The MeGC hydrogel was designed to gel upon initiation by exposure to visible blue light in the presence of riboflavin, an aqueous initiator from natural vitamin. The incorporation of Col II into MeGC hydrogels increased cellular condensation and deposition of cartilaginous extracellular matrix by encapsulated chondrocytes. MeGC hydrogels containing Col II supported the release of TGF-beta1 in a controlled manner over time in chondrogenic medium and the incorporated TGF-beta1 further enhanced chondrogenesis of encapsulated chondrocytes and MSCs, especially synovial MSCs. Subcutaneous implantation of hydrogel cultures showed greatly improved neocartilage formation in constructs loaded with TGF-beta1 compared with controls. These findings suggest that cartilage mimetic hydrogels have a high potential for cartilage repair.  


PMID- 25462527
TI  - To what extent can cortical bone millimeter-scale elasticity be predicted by a two-phase composite model with variable porosity?
AB  - An evidence gap exists in fully understanding and reliably modeling the variations in elastic anisotropy that are observed at the millimeter scale in human cortical bone. The porosity (pore volume fraction) is known to account for a large part, but not all, of the elasticity variations. This effect may be modeled by a two-phase micromechanical model consisting of a homogeneous matrix pervaded by cylindrical pores. Although this model has been widely used, it lacks experimental validation. The aim of the present work is to revisit experimental data (elastic coefficients, porosity) previously obtained from 21 cortical bone specimens from the femoral mid-diaphysis of 10 donors and test the validity of the model by proposing a detailed discussion of its hypotheses. This includes investigating to what extent the experimental uncertainties, pore network modeling, and matrix elastic properties influence the model's predictions. The results support the validity of the two-phase model of cortical bone which assumes that the essential source of variations of elastic properties at the millimeter-scale is the volume fraction of vascular porosity. We propose that the bulk of the remaining discrepancies between predicted stiffness coefficients and experimental data (RMSE between 6% and 9%) is in part due to experimental errors and part due to small variations of the extravascular matrix properties. More significantly, although most of the models that have been proposed for cortical bone were based on several homogenization steps and a large number of variable parameters, we show that a model with a single parameter, namely the volume fraction of vascular porosity, is a suitable representation for cortical bone. The results could provide a guide to build specimen-specific cortical bone models. This will be of interest to analyze the structure-function relationship in bone and to design bone-mimicking materials.  


PMID- 25462528
TI  - Photoactivated miR-148b-nanoparticle conjugates improve closure of critical size mouse calvarial defects.
AB  - Inducible systems providing temporal control of differentiation have the potential to improve outcomes in surgical reconstruction and regenerative medicine by precise modulation of wound healing and tissue repair processes. The aim of this study was to demonstrate that nanoformulated microRNA (miRNA) conjugates activated via photo exposure can lead to the induced osteogenic differentiation of human adipose-derived stromal/stem cells (hASCs) in vivo. The conjugate PC-miR-148b-SNP, a mimic of miRNA-148b tethered to silver nanoparticles (SNPs) via a photolabile linker, was used to modulate gene expression for improved closure of a critical size defect drilled on the right parietal bone of male CD-1 nude homozygous mice. The PC-miR-148b-SNP conjugates added to hASCs and loaded to either Matrigel or polycaprolactone (PCL) scaffolds resulted in different levels of healing of the defect. After 4 and 12weeks, 3-D micro-computed tomography reconstructed images indicate statistically significant defect closure from 3.83+/-1.19% to 5.46+/-2.01% and 6.54+/-4.28% to 32.53+/-8.3% for non-photoactivated and photoactivated conjugates, respectively, in the PCL scaffolds. The results were confirmed with H&E and Masson's Trichrome stains in the transverse sections of photoactivated conjugates. Collagen fiber staining was greatest at 12weeks when it reached approximately the same density and thickness as the native calvarium. This technology provides a platform that can be used with other miRNAs that actively govern the pathways responsible for regenerative and wound healing processes.  


PMID- 25462530
TI  - COSMID: A Web-based Tool for Identifying and Validating CRISPR/Cas Off-target Sites.
AB  - Precise genome editing using engineered nucleases can significantly facilitate biological studies and disease treatment. In particular, clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR) with CRISPR-associated (Cas) proteins are a potentially powerful tool for modifying a genome by targeted cleavage of DNA sequences complementary to designed guide strand RNAs. Although CRISPR/Cas systems can have on-target cleavage rates close to the transfection rates, they may also have relatively high off-target cleavage at similar genomic sites that contain one or more base pair mismatches, and insertions or deletions relative to the guide strand. We have developed a bioinformatics-based tool, COSMID (CRISPR Off-target Sites with Mismatches, Insertions, and Deletions) that searches genomes for potential off-target sites (http://crispr.bme.gatech.edu). Based on the user-supplied guide strand and input parameters, COSMID identifies potential off-target sites with the specified number of mismatched bases and insertions or deletions when compared with the guide strand. For each site, amplification primers optimal for the chosen application are also given as output. This ranked-list of potential off-target sites assists the choice and evaluation of intended target sites, thus helping the design of CRISPR/Cas systems with minimal off-target effects, as well as the identification and quantification of CRISPR/Cas induced off-target cleavage in cells.  


PMID- 25462531
TI  - Validation of three automatic devices for the self-measurement of blood pressure according to the European Society of Hypertension International Protocol revision 2010: the Omron HEM-7130, HEM-7320F, and HEM-7500F.
AB  - OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present study was to validate the Omron HEM-7130, HEM-7320F, and HEM-7500F for monitoring upper arm blood pressure (BP) according to the European Society of Hypertension International Protocol revision 2010 (ESH-IP revision 2010). METHODS: Three trained medical doctors validated the performance of these devices by comparing the data obtained from the devices with those of a standard mercury sphygmomanometer. We included 33 participants (20 men and 13 women for the HEM-7130 experiment; 18 men and 15 women for the HEM-7320F experiment; and 21 men and 12 women for the HEM-7500F experiment). The mean age of the participants was 49+/-15, 50+/-11, and 50+/-11 years in the respective studies. RESULTS: The mean differences between the device and the mercury readings for systolic and diastolic BP were as follows: HEM-7130, -1.8+/-5.3 and -0.1+/-4.0 mmHg, respectively; HEM-7320F, -0.9+/-4.7 and -1.9+/-4.4 mmHg, respectively; and HEM-7500F, -1.0+/-4.6 and -1.1+/-4.0 mmHg, respectively. These findings indicated that the device was reading lower than the mercury. However, the number of absolute differences between the devices and observers fulfilled the requirement of the ESH-IP revision 2010. CONCLUSION: The Omron HEM-7130, HEM-7320F, and HEM-7500F passed all the requirements of the ESH-IP 2010 revision. Therefore, we recommend these devices for the home measurement of BP in adults. 


PMID- 25462529
TI  - Comparison Between Several Integrase-defective Lentiviral Vectors Reveals Increased Integration of an HIV Vector Bearing a D167H Mutant.
AB  - HIV-1 derived vectors are among the most efficient for gene transduction in mammalian tissues. As the parent virus, they carry out vector genome insertion into the host cell chromatin. Consequently, their preferential integration in transcribed genes raises several conceptual and safety issues. To address part of these questions, HIV-derived vectors have been engineered to be nonintegrating. This was mainly achieved by mutating HIV-1 integrase at functional hotspots of the enzyme enabling the development of streamlined nuclear DNA circles functional for transgene expression. Few integrase mutant vectors have been successfully tested so far for gene transfer. They are cleared with time in mitotic cells, but stable within nondividing retina cells or neurons. Here, we compared six HIV vectors carrying different integrases, either wild type or with different mutations (D64V, D167H, Q168A, K186Q+Q214L+Q216L, and RRK262-264AAH) shown to modify integrase enzymatic activity, oligomerization, or interaction with key cellular cofactor of HIV DNA integration as LEDGF/p75 or TNPO3. We show that these mutations differently affect the transduction efficiency as well as rates and patterns of integration of HIV-derived vectors suggesting their different processing in the nucleus. Surprisingly and most interestingly, we report that an integrase carrying the D167H substitution improves vector transduction efficiency and integration in both HEK-293T and primary CD34+ cells.  


PMID- 25462532
TI  - Target selection for FDA-approved medicines.
AB  - The biopharmaceutical industry translates fundamental understanding of disease into new medicines. As part of a comprehensive analysis of FDA-approved new molecular entities (NMEs), we assessed the mechanistic basis of drug efficacy, with emphasis on target selection. Three target families capture almost half of all NMEs and the leading ten families capture more than three-quarters of NME approvals. Target families were related to their clinical application and identify dynamic trends in targeting over time. These data suggest increasing attention toward novel target families, which presumably reflects increased understanding of disease etiology. We also suggest the need to balance the ongoing emphasis on target-based drug discovery with phenotypic approaches to drug discovery.  


PMID- 25462533
TI  - Splice variants in the proteome: a promising and challenging field to targeted drug discovery.
AB  - The advent and improvement of high-throughput sequencing over the past decade leveraged the study of whole genomes and transcriptomes of different organisms at lower costs. In transcriptomics, RNA-Seq expands our capacity to understand gene expression in different tissues and pathologies, and how alternative splicing might affect the final protein sequence. Here, we discuss the association of using transcriptome and proteome high-throughput data to foster drug discovery. Using this innovative strategy, some research groups have already identified computationally predicted novel peptides derived from putative splice variants in experimental human proteome data. These discoveries provide new opportunities for targeted drug development.  


PMID- 25462534
TI  - Emerging therapeutic strategies in COPD.
AB  - Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) management is changing with the advent of newer inhaled medications and devices that belong to the current group of therapies [i.e. inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), long-acting beta2 agonists (LABAs) and long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs)], providing patients as well as physicians with a wider range of options. In this review, we examine Phase II studies currently underway in COPD patients. With improved understanding of the condition, the role for biological and immunomodulatory therapies in COPD patients is also an interesting and important aspect looked upon with great enthusiasm. It is indeed interesting to note that the future COPD treatment options could include novel interventional strategies in addition to innovative inhaled therapies, which have been the backbone of COPD management for the past couple of decades.  


PMID- 25462536
TI  - Detection of drug specific circulating immune complexes from in vivo cynomolgus monkey serum samples.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Administration of a biotherapeutic can result in the formation of anti-drug antibodies (ADAs). The resulting ADA can potentially form immune complexes (ICs) with the drug leading to altered pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles and/or adverse events. Furthermore the presence of such complexes may interfere with accurate PK assessment, and/or detection of ADA in immunogenicity assays. Here, we present two assays to detect the presence of drug-ADA immune complexes in cynomolgus monkeys. RESULTS: Serum samples were analyzed for IC formation in vivo. 8/8 tested animals were positive for drug specific IC. Depending on the time point tested 4/8 or 7/8 animals tested positive for ADA during drug dosing. All 8 animals were confirmed positive for ADA during the washout phase, indicating drug interference in the bridging assay. Relative amount of IC over time was determined and its correlation with PK and ADA was then assessed. Multivariate data analysis demonstrates good correlation between signals obtained from the anti-drug and FcgammaRIIIa based capture assays, although due to its biological characteristic FcgammaRIIIa based assay captured only a subset of drug specific IC. In one animal IC remained in circulation even when the drug levels decreased below detection limit. CONCLUSION: Results from this study indicate the presence of IC during administration of an immunogenic biotherapeutic. Potential application of these assays includes detection of ADA in an IC during high drug levels. The results on the kinetics of IC formation during ADA response can complement the understanding of PK and ADA profiles. Moreover, the presence of IC indicates possible ADA interference in standard PK assays and potential underestimation of total drug exposure in toxicology studies. In addition this study also highlights the need to understand downstream in vivo consequences of drug-ADA IC as no animals under investigation developed adverse events. 


PMID- 25462535
TI  - Different plasma markers of inflammation are influenced by immune recovery and cART composition or intensification in treated HIV infected individuals.
AB  - BACKGROUND: HIV-1 infection increases plasma levels of inflammatory markers. Combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) does not restore inflammatory markers to normal levels. Since intensification of cART with raltegravir reduced CD8 T-cell activation in the Discor-Ral and IntegRal studies, we have evaluated the effect of raltegravir intensification on several soluble inflammation markers in these studies. METHODS: Longitudinal plasma samples (0-48 weeks) from the IntegRal (n = 67, 22 control and 45 intensified individuals) and the Discor-Ral studies (44 individuals with CD4 T-cell counts<350 cells/ul, 14 control and 30 intensified) were assayed for 25 markers. Mann-Whitney, Wilcoxon, Spearman test and linear mixed models were used for analysis. RESULTS: At baseline, different inflammatory markers were strongly associated with HCV co-infection, lower CD4 counts and with cART regimens (being higher in PI-treated individuals), but poorly correlated with detection of markers of residual viral replication. Although raltegravir intensification reduced inflammation in individuals with lower CD4 T-cell counts, no effect of intensification was observed on plasma markers of inflammation in a global analysis. An association was found, however, between reductions in immune activation and plasma levels of the coagulation marker D-dimer, which exclusively decreased in intensified patients on protease inhibitor (PI)-based cART regimens (P = 0.040). CONCLUSIONS: The inflammatory profile in treated HIV-infected individuals showed a complex association with HCV co-infection, the levels of CD4 T cells and the cART regimen. Raltegravir intensification specifically reduced D-dimer levels in PI-treated patients, highlighting the link between cART composition and residual viral replication; however, raltegravir had little effect on other inflammatory markers. 


PMID- 25462537
TI  - Fetal gut laser microdissection in combination with RNA preamplification enables epithelial-specific transcriptional profiling.
AB  - Laser microdissection (LMD) technology enables highly specific gene expression analyses of biologically relevant questions at cell- or tissue-specific resolution. Nevertheless, specific cell types are often limited in quantity (i.e. fetal tissue), making high quality RNA extraction and subsequent gene expression approaches via common reverse transcriptase-quantitative PCR (RT-q-PCR) challenging. In the case of fetal gut epithelia representing immune modulatory interphases gene expression analysis with common RT-q-PCR is limited to a few genes (<10). To circumvent these limitations we provide a workflow using laser microdissection of 1.5MioMUm(2) dissected area of murine fetal intestinal epithelial cells (IEC) from fetal ileum and colon with subsequent RNA isolation, whole transcriptome preamplification (WTA) and gene expression analysis by microarray and quantitative PCR (qPCR). This workflow allows simultaneous analyses of global (microarrays) and targeted gene expression (qPCR) and consequently increases the number of measurable genes up to 25-fold by qPCR. It is suitable for cryosections from many tissues and species in order to evaluate in utero biological effects on specific effector sites.  


PMID- 25462538
TI  - International trends in patient selection for elective endovascular aneurysm repair: sicker patients with safer anatomy leading to improved 1-year survival.
AB  - BACKGROUND: To review the trends in patient selection and early death rate for patients undergoing elective endovascular repair of infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms (EVAR) in 3 countries. For this study, audit data from 4,163 patients who had undergone elective infrarenal EVAR were amalgamated. The data originated from Australia, Canada (Ontario), and England (London, Cambridge, and Leicester). METHODS: Statistical analyses were undertaken to determine whether patient characteristics and early death rate varied between and within study groups and over time. The study design was retrospective analysis of data collected prospectively between 1999 and 2012. RESULTS: One-year survival improved over time (P = 0.0013). Canadian patients were sicker than those in Australia or England (P < 0.001). American Society of Anesthesiologists classification (ASA) increased over time across all countries although more significantly in Canada. Age at operation remained constant, although older patients were treated more recently in London (P < 0.001). English centers treated larger aneurysms compared with Australia and Canada (P < 0.001). Australian centers treated a much larger proportion of aneurysms that were <55 mm than other countries. Preoperative creatinine levels decreased over time for all countries and centers (P < 0.001). Infrarenal neck angles have significantly decreased over time (P < 0.001). Recent data from London (UK) showed that operations were performed on longer (P < 0.001) and wider (P < 0.001) infrarenal necks than elsewhere. CONCLUSIONS: In this international comparison, several trends were noted including improved 1-year survival despite declining patient health (as measured by increasing ASA status). This may reflect greater knowledge regarding EVAR that centers from different countries have gained over the last decade and improved medical management of patients with aneurysmal disease. 


PMID- 25462539
TI  - Clinical predictors of major adverse cardiovascular events during long-term follow-up after carotid endarterectomy.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Those patients who undergo a carotid endarterectomy (CEA) will present a higher cardiovascular risk during follow-up than the general population. The objective of this study was to determine the prognostic factors and validate the accuracy of 3 cardiovascular risk scores as predictors of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs) during long-term follow-up after CEA. METHODS: Observational retrospective follow-up study with 416 CEAs conducted consecutively in 385 patients from 1994 to 2011. The primary end point was MACE, single event including myocardial infarction, stroke, and cardiovascular death. Preoperative risk factors and medical treatment at discharge were collected. A general cardiovascular risk score, the Revised Cardiac Risk Index (RCRI), was used, and 2 scores specific for CEA (Halm and Tu). Descriptive analysis and Cox regression were conducted. Informed consent from patients was obtained and approval by the ethics committee. RESULTS: The median follow-up was 4.94 years. MACEs appeared in 22.1% (95% confidence interval [CI], 18.0-26.2%) of the series during follow-up. The MACEs rate at 1 year, 3 years, and 5 years, was 3.1%, 9.3%, and 15.8%, respectively. In the Cox regression model, the MACE predictor variables were: the presence of peripheral artery disease (hazard ratio [HR], 1.69; 95% CI, 1.06-2.70) and RCRI (HR,1.61; 95% CI, 1.04-2.50). The RCRI area under the curve for predicting events, with a 2.5 cutoff point, was 0.59 with 85.9% sensitivity and a positive predictive value of 25.2%. CONCLUSIONS: Peripheral artery disease and high RCRI have an independent effect on predicting MACEs. The 3 different scores have a low ability for predicting MACEs during long-term follow-up. 


PMID- 25462540
TI  - Do not bite the hand that feeds you.
AB  - Radial artery pseudoaneurysms occur infrequently and are most commonly associated with medical interventions such as arterial lines or cardiac catheterization procedures. Animal bites, particularly cat bites, as a cause for radial artery pseudoaneurysms are extremely rare with only 1 previously reported case in the literature. A unique case of digital micro emboli from a radial artery pseudoaneurysm caused by a cat bite to the wrist is presented.  


PMID- 25462541
TI  - Bibliometric analysis of factors predicting increased citations in the vascular and endovascular literature.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Dissemination of research findings in the scientific community is reflected by the citation count. Our objective was to investigate the relative citation impact of vascular research studies and identify potential predictors of increased citation rates. METHODS: Articles published in leading journals of vascular and general surgery (Journal of Vascular Surgery, European Journal of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Journal of Endovascular Therapy, Annals of Vascular Surgery and Annals of Surgery, British Journal of Surgery, Journal of the American College of Surgeons, and JAMA Surgery) during a 4-month period were identified through electronic databases. Variables potentially associated with increased citation rates, including subject, design, title characteristics, article length, bibliographic references, authorship, geographic distribution, interdisciplinary collaboration, article access, and funding, were assessed in univariate and multiple linear regression models through December 2012. RESULTS: A total of 226 articles with a total number of 4,605 citations were identified. Univariate analysis revealed that endovascular-related studies, study design, studies reporting design in the title, long articles, and studies with high number of references were associated with higher citation rates. On multivariate analysis, 3 variables were found to independently predict the number of citations: study subject (endovascular-related studies; regression coefficient [95% confidence interval], 0.474 [0.240-0.708]; P < 0.001); study design (randomized controlled trial; regression coefficient [95% confidence interval], 0.575 [0.145-1.005]; P = 0.009); and article length (number of pages; regression coefficient [95% confidence interval], 0.069 [0.016-0.123]; P = 0.011). CONCLUSIONS: Authors involved in vascular research may enhance the impact of their work by embarking on research strategies of high methodologic quality and pursuing work related with new technologies and evolving endovascular therapies. 


PMID- 25462542
TI  - Carotid artery pseudoaneurysm as a complication of carotid artery stenting.
AB  - Carotid artery stenting (CAS) has been adopted more in the treatment of carotid artery stenosis recently. The vast majority of studies about this procedure have concentrated mainly on the short- and long-term clinical complications, that is, stroke, myocardial infarction, and restenosis. However, mechanical complications including both stent fracture and carotid pseudoaneurysm are under-reported. In the present report, we present a patient with a common carotid artery psuedoaneurysm as a complication of CAS.  


PMID- 25462543
TI  - Thoracic aorta stent grafting through transapical access.
AB  - BACKGROUND: To describe the transapical approach for thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR). METHODS: Three patients, 2 elective and 1 emergent, with thoracic aorta aneurysm are described with vascular or direct aortic inaccessible access, who underwent TEVAR through transapical access. The technique is described in detail emphasizing the usefulness of the through-and-through guidewire, rapid pacing, and transesophageal echocardiography guidance. RESULTS: All patients were technical successfully treated with TEVAR through transapical access. The emergent patient, however, died due to multiorgan failure. CONCLUSIONS: Our early experience shows that the transapical approach for TEVAR procedures is feasible in experienced hands. The selection of the patient and careful planning based on imaging are of paramount importance and should lead to the most suitable access site tailored to the need of the individual patient. 


PMID- 25462544
TI  - Three-year delayed presentation of femoral pseudoaneurysm after penetrating limb trauma.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Delayed presentations of lower limb pseudoaneurysms secondary to penetrating trauma are particularly rare. METHODS: After presentation of this rare case report, we review relevant published literature. RESULTS: We report a rare case of a 55-year-old man with a progressively enlarging mass measuring 15 cm by 15 cm on his right anteromedial thigh 3 years after penetrating trauma. Computer tomography angiogram revealed this to be a large pseudoaneurysm supplied by a side branch artery from the right superficial femoral artery. Using an open approach, the pseudoanerysm was successfully repaired with the side branch oversewn, and the patient made a good recovery being discharged from hospital 4 days later. CONCLUSIONS: Surgeons must retain pseudoaneurysm as a prominent differential for a patient presenting with a progressively enlarging, expansile mass of an extremity after penetrating trauma to ensure urgent investigation and prompt vascular intervention. Both open surgical ablation and endovascular embolization of pseudoaneurysms of the extremities are effective techniques with low rates of complications and morbidity reported in published literature. 


PMID- 25462546
TI  - Therapeutic outcomes and thromboembolic events after treatment of acute arterial thromboembolism of the upper extremity.
AB  - BACKGROUND: To investigate short- and long-term outcomes of patients with acute arterial thromboembolism of upper extremity, focusing on postoperative thromboembolic events by etiology. METHODS: Hospital records of 53 patients (average age 70 years; males 49%) with acute arterial thromboembolism of upper extremity treated between June 1993 and December 2013 were retrospectively reviewed, evaluating patient characteristics and clinical outcomes, both short and long term. Subjects were stratified as those with (group I, 34) and without (group II, 19) atrial fibrillation as underlying cause. RESULTS: Two patients received anticoagulation alone as conservative treatment. The remainder (n = 51) underwent surgical revascularization. Symptoms resolved in 51 patients (96%) except 2 patients with postoperative reocclusion, and there was no need of amputation in all patients. Overall inpatient mortality was 5.6% (3/53). Patients of group I suffered most of the recurrent thromboembolic events (group I: 17 events, 14 patients; group II: 2 events, 2 patients) recorded during follow-up (mean duration 56.8 +/- 62.2 months). Respective event-free survival rates at 1, 3, and 5 years differed significantly by group: 77%, 44%, and 44% for group I; 100%, 100%, and 83% for group II (P = 0.004). Among 14 patients with recurrent embolic events in group I, half of the patients were not receiving anticoagulants; however, anticoagulant cessation was generally arbitrary. Overall survival rates at 1, 3, and 5 years were 82%, 69%, and 52% for group I and 84%, 78%, and 70% for group II (P = 0.21). CONCLUSIONS: In this study, surgical treatment of acute arterial thromboembolism of upper extremity was largely successful. Especially in patients with atrial fibrillation, adequate long-term anticoagulation is indicated as prophylaxis, given the high rates of recurrent thromboembolic events. 


PMID- 25462545
TI  - The impact of perioperative red blood cell transfusions on postoperative outcomes in vascular surgery patients.
AB  - BACKGROUND: Red blood cell (RBC) transfusions are common in vascular surgery and aim to reduce tissue ischemia. However, the evidence that transfusions are beneficial is contradictory. This study evaluates the impact of perioperative transfusion (transfusion within 3 days of surgery) on 30-day postoperative outcomes in elective vascular surgery patients. METHODS: This observational cohort included 1,041 vascular surgery patients between 2002 and 2011 in a tertiary referral center for whom hemoglobin levels were retrospectively available. Patients who received transfusions after 3 days postoperatively were excluded. A propensity score was developed for the likelihood of receiving perioperative transfusion. The study end points were 30-day cardiovascular (CV) events (myocardial infarction, heart failure, arrhythmias, stroke, asymptomatic troponin-T release, and CV death) and all-cause mortality. Multivariable logistic regression analyses, adjusting for relevant confounders and transfusion propensity, were used to determine the associations between perioperative transfusion and the study end points. RESULTS: The final study sample comprised 992 patients; 265 (27%) patients received perioperative transfusions. During the 30-day follow-up, a total of 190 (19%) patients suffered from a 30-day postoperative CV event, of which 116 (44%) occurred in patients who received perioperative RBC transfusions compared with 74 (10%) patients without transfusions (P < 0.01). The end point all-cause mortality was reached in 36 (4%) patients-26 (10%) patients with perioperative RBC transfusion compared with 10 (1%) patients without transfusion (P < 0.01). Perioperative transfusion was associated with an independently increased risk of 30-day CV events (odds ratio 5.0; 95% confidence interval 3.1-8.2) and all-cause mortality (odds ratio 4.4; 95% confidence interval 1.6-12.1). CONCLUSION: Perioperative transfusion is associated with a strongly increased risk of both 30-day CV events and mortality in elective vascular surgery patients. 


